Marriage is full of highs, lows and a whole bunch of ordinary moments in between. And somehow the spouses of Twitter continue to find humour in the minutiae of married life – and sum it up perfectly in no more than 280 characters. Every other week, we round up the funniest marriage tweets of the previous 14 days. Read on for 26 new relatable ones that will have you laughing in agreement. “Judy Garland is Liza Minnelli’s mom?” -my husband who apparently isn’t gay. My husband and I now have an app that tells us if the garage door is open or closed and this effectively gets rid of 90% of conversation during car rides. Capturing my husband‘s attention is easy, I just refer to a screwdriver as a wrench. My wife said "Your wonderful" in a text to me. I replied "No, you're wonderful". She's been in a good mood all day. I don't think I should tell her I was correcting her grammar. husband: hey, what’s for dinner?Me: my signature dish husband: so leftovers wife: *calling me* put ketchup on the grocery listme: ok[one minute later]wife: hello?me: I can't read it anymore Today I learned that you never bring a ‘it was their spa day’ to a ‘you soaked the cast iron pans overnight?!’ fight My wife hates talking on the phone. One time when she misplaced it, I dialed her number to help her find it. She heard a faint ring in the adjacent room. She went in, picked it up,answered it, hung up, and texted me: “Found it, thanks.” Of course I put a lot of effort into my marriage because it takes a lot of effort to ignore the fact that I married someone who likes to squeeze the toothpaste tube wrong. My wife and I celebrated our anniversary today by completely forgetting it Whenever my wife buys a sweater that says do not tumble dry, I take that as a challenge. If Mr is pronounced Mister then Dr should be pronounced Dister. Wife: It's too early for your shit. I’m so married I asked my wife if I could help and she said I could help by not asking if I could help for the rest of the night. My wife knows two settings on the thermostat 62° & 92°. My children put yogurt over their cereal for breakfast, and I don’t bat an eye. My husband puts chicken & grape salad on corn tortillas, and I don’t even know who I married. Dating: "Wanna share a strawberry smoothie?"Married: "Quit holding your coffee mug loudly!" my wife and I do this foreplay thing where she blames me for things I have no control over and I apologize for it, it's super kinky & I'm sorry jc penney wouldn't let you return the jacket honey After 12 years together, my wife and I have finally achieved perfect synchronicity in the bedroom… We farted at *exactly* the same time. tomorrow my wife and i are installing the underground dog fence. i have planned it out well. can't wait to go to petsmart and lowes 42 more times and be divorced by 3pm. Without me, my husband would still be lost in that IKEA.