The women of Twitter never fail to brighten our day with their brilliant and succinct wit. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up their hilarious musings. Scroll through this week’s great tweets from women below, then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for past roundups. i just need people to understand that before cell phones we had to call landlines and your friend's parents would answer and YOU HAD TO TALK TO THEIR PARENTS until your friend came to the phone best job in the world? probably the guy who gets to write Ice T’s dialogue on law and order SVU pic.twitter.com/dVNzjtUoUt People w babies are like “I’d love to do lunch, how’s 9:45am?” I once had a girl in uni tell me I should adopt a stage name as mine is “too Asian/hard to pronounce.” When I pointed out HER last name was literally “Butts” & she planned on teaching middle school she said “so what” 19 year old go on Love Island and are like "I've never had a long term relationship" I recently learned that my husband only opens instagram once every 4-6 weeks to check our local ice cream parlor's flavor of the month......it is just....an ice cream flavor checker for him....amazing If u rob a container store does that count as organized crime? once again I have an appointment at 1:30 so I have no choice but to spend all morning doing nothing Prehistoric planet is awesome. They show u the most fucked up monster you’ve ever seen and say “these guys had a dry sense of humor and they loveddd to tell each other secrets! This one is shy.” And i’m like okay. I guess I have to take your word for it Just once I’d like to see her win pic.twitter.com/CePIWOLE2J Asked my dad and uncle why they weren’t chatting and my uncle goes “we’re done chatting for today” and my dad nods and they continue watching tv in silence a guy’s favorite hilarious joke is responding to any question with “No. haha jk of course you can” the day insta gets a “viewed your profile” feature ima just have to log out. covid is running through my friend group faster than a moderately charming improv comedian in his late 20s sorry i was weird last night. it was to move the plot forward