Nadine Dorries reportedly put her foot in it when she asked Microsoft when it was going to “get rid” of its algorithms – a feature not usually linked to the computer company. Dorries has only been digital, culture, media and sport secretary since Boris Johnson’s cabinet reshuffle in September, but in that short time she’s developed quite the reputation for very public gaffes. The cabinet minister has expressed bewilderment upon learning that children watch TV through YouTube, demonstrated that she doesn’t understand how Channel 4 is funded and admitted that she does not “do any news unless I am absolutely forced to”. And it seems Dorries might have tripped up again with her latest misunderstanding of media. According to a POLITICO report from Wednesday, Dorries “immediately” asked the international technology corporation Microsoft when they were going to “get rid of algorithms” during a meeting. Algorithms are used in most computers, including by Microsoft, and is fundamental to the technology. But its use is mainly criticised when employed on social media to direct users towards just one type of content. This can create “echo chambers” and help reinforce a certain kind of message. The report also claims Dorries mentioned the same issue again “in a separate stakeholders meeting”. Not only is this the wrong place to be mentioning it, but campaigners who have scrutinised algorithms have pushed for reforms on the design rather than a complete ban. Dorries has mentioned the dangers of algorithms before and the effect it can have on children using platforms such as Instagram or Twitter, as it may direct them towards increasingly dangerous content based on what they engage with. However, POLITICO’s Annabelle Dickson claims: “For all Dorries’ passion, some of those who have worked closely with her say she has, at times, lacked a grasp of details.” Here’s what her Twitter critics had to say about this latest slip-up: So...do we know what Nadine Dorries thinks an algorithm is? Microsoft dealing with Nadine Dorries when she asked them to get rid of the algorithms pic.twitter.com/xxzPEvlzHi Nadine Dorries is reported to have asked Microsoft: "When are you getting rid of algorithms?"I don't hold much hope that her Online Safety Bill is going to be anything but a disaster. pic.twitter.com/GIyelZVBwQ It may be worse than we know… https://t.co/LJMnuqgwgw Nadine Dorries, stumbling into Dolmio and demanding to parlay with the Dolmio man: When are you going to stop making the pasta sauce like a mama used to make- pic.twitter.com/LMSMC2Cyt2 As with Frost, Patel & Rees-Mogg, the damage done by promoting utterly inadequate politicians into positions of real power will be among Boris Johnson's most enduring legacies. https://t.co/j8N3iGVu5h “Dorries arrived at a meeting with software giant Microsoft and immediately asked when they were going to get rid of algorithms, according to an official. She also raised the same issue in a separate stakeholder meeting.”She is an intellectual titan. ~AA https://t.co/JpbHSCRAVi i'm so excited that nadine dorries is finally going to destroy algorithms once and for all, we can be free pic.twitter.com/kDBEcG73QC "Mr Babbage, can your Difference Engine run without an algorithm?" pic.twitter.com/kYrPhbwrk0 Nadine Dorries trying to remove the algorithms from the internet. pic.twitter.com/jaZXGCfq9c "See you in hell, algorithms!" The timing of this POLITICO report – released on Wednesday – does also risk overshadowing the online safety bill Dorries is championing this week, which aims to push social media bosses to act over harmful content on their sites.