Just 2,700 visas have been granted to refugees as part of the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, it has been announced. The number falls far short of the total 28,300 applications received under the project unveiled by Levelling Up Secretary Michael Gove. There have been a further 31,200 visa applications under the parallel Ukraine Family Scheme as of March 29, according to official figures. The Home Office gave the total number of visas issued as 25,500 – that includes the 2,700 under the sponsorship scheme and 22,800 under the family scheme. “We need to do more and will be making further improvements to bring people to the UK as quickly as possible.” It comes after the government was accused of not moving fast enough to help those fleeing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  The refugees minister also admitted today that they needed to “do more” to bring people to the UK as quickly as possible. Yesterday sources in Gove’s department blamed delays on the Home Office which is responsible for conducting checks on both the hosts and refugees, according to The Times.  Responding to today’s figures, refugees minister Lord Harrington said: “We are starting to see progress because of changes the Home Office made to streamline the visa process and put additional resources into the system. “However, we need to do more and will be making further improvements to bring people to the UK as quickly as possible. “I look forward to welcoming more families and ensuring they have the support they need when they arrive.” Labour has called on the government to fix the “shameful scale of bureaucracy” that is “preventing desperately vulnerable people from reaching sanctuary in the UK”. Lisa Nandy, shadow Levelling Up secretary, said: “These figures show that the government are wasting the amazing generosity that British people have shown. “It’s scandalous that only one in 100 of the offers by people to open their homes, has been taken up because of the way the government is running the scheme. “Ministers gave no thought to key details before the scheme was announced.” Nandy said they must cut out the “unnecessary bureaucracy” instead of using a “DIY scheme” where sponsors and refugees have to find each other on social media. “This is a serious humanitarian crisis, not online dating,” she added. Lib Dem MP Alistair Carmichael MP described the government’s response to the crisis as “appallingly slow and chaotic”. He said Ukrainian refugees should be allowed to come to the UK now and without first having to apply for a visa.