John Bercow has been described as a “serial bully”, in a damning report by a Commons watchdog.  The former speaker of the House of Commons has been found guilty of bullying staff by the standards watchdog. The ex-Tory MP will be banned for life from holding a parliamentary pass for former members. It makes it even more unlikely Bercow, who spent a decade in the speaker’s chair, will ever be given a seat in the Lords. He was the first speaker in 230 years not to be offered a peerage when he stood down in 2019. He was nominated by former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn but the bid was blocked due to the bullying probe. Now the Independent Expert Panel has reprimanded Bercow for breaching Parliament’s bullying and harassment policy. They also decided his conduct was so serious he should never be allowed a pass to the Parliamentary estate and that if he were still an MP it would have “recommended expelling him from the House”. Sir Stephen Irwin, who chaired the IEP sub-panel, said: “This was behaviour which had no place in any workplace. Members of staff in the House should not be expected to have to tolerate it as part of everyday life.” The Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards upheld 21 allegations against Bercow from three complainants - Lord Lisvane, the former Commons clerk, Angus Sinclair and Kate Emms. They rejected appeals by Bercow and accused him of an “abuse of power”. The report said: “The findings of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, which we have upheld, show that the respondent has been a serial bully. “His evidence in the investigations, the findings of the Commissioner, and his submissions to us, show also that the respondent has been a serial liar.″ Bercow said the investigation was a “travesty of justice” and described it as “amateurish”. In a statement, he said: “Parliament is supposed to be the highest court in the land. This inquiry, which lasted a ghastly 22 months at great cost to the taxpayer, has failed it dismally. “At the end of it, the panel has simply said that I should be denied a parliamentary pass which I have never applied for and do not want. That is the absurdity of its position.” Bercow said such a case would have been thrown out by any court in the land, describing it as a “vengeful vendetta”. “It is a travesty of justice and brings shame on the House of Commons,” he added. “To describe what I have experienced as a kangaroo court is grossly insulting to kangaroos.” The claims were detailed in a report by a body set up to investigate potential misbehaviour by parliamentarians. The independent expert panel system was formed to stop MPs being involved in judging the actions of their colleagues. It comes after a Labour insider told The Telegraph Bercow was preparing the ground for a possible tilt at running to be Mayor of London. The former Tory MP defected to Labour last year.  This is a breaking news story and will be updated. Follow HuffPost UK on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.