Ukrainian civilians tried to stop Russian convoys from entering their city without any weapons in some heroic footage shared online. Shocking satellite images from Tuesday revealed a 40-mile long convoy of Russian vehicles heading towards the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv as Vladimir Putin stepped up his unprovoked attack on the European country. But the Kremlin is not just focusing on Kyiv – new videos on social media show civilians trying to fight off tanks from the Luhansk region, which is much further south than the capital. The remaining citizens can be seen standing in the way of the military vehicles as they try to plow through Ukrainian streets. Unarmed Ukrainian civilians taking to the streets to block Russian convoys – that is the very definition of courage.   pic.twitter.com/QmOvmeCAji Civilians try to stop Russian tanks in Starobilsk, Luhansk region. (Video shared by Ukrainian military) pic.twitter.com/08Bhd8W4uD Civilians were echoing these efforts further south as well. #Ukraine Residents of Energodar took to the streets to prevent Russian troops. In this city, the largest nuclear power plant in Europe - the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station - is located. Any shelling or explosion can be deadly here. I hope the Kremlin understands it pic.twitter.com/nA5udk6eFR Energodar. More and more people take to the street to stop tanks from entering the city. #UkraineWar #UkraineRussiaWar #RussiaUkraine #РоссияБЕЗпутина #StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.com/Rmz3r4Jhob The footage has emerged just hours after Putin bombed a Holocaust memorial site in Ukraine. To the world: what is the point of saying «never again» for 80 years, if the world stays silent when a bomb drops on the same site of Babyn Yar? At least 5 killed. History repeating… Babyn Yar, a site of one of the worst mass killings of Jews during World War II, was hit on Tuesday evening, shortly after the Russian president had called for the “denazification” of the country. Ukraine’s second-largest city Kharkiv is under attack too. Fighting between the Russian forces and the Ukrainian resistance there continued throughout the night. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenksyy claims he will not pursue peace talks with Russia until Putin calls off the fighting and the bombing. Kharkiv Morning after intense fighting through out the night #Ukraine pic.twitter.com/geqjtNmcZh