Boris Johnson and Rishi Sunak have been issued fines for breaking lockdown rules, No.10 has announced. The prime minister was fined for attending his birthday party in in the Cabinet Room on June 19, 2020. Carrie Johnson, the prime minister’s wife, has also been issued a fine by police, her spokesperson said, and has paid it. A Downing Street spokesperson confirmed on Tuesday afternoon the prime minister and the chancellor had both been given a fixed penalty notice (FPN). Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, said both Johnson and Sunak “must both resign”. “Boris Johnson and Rishi Sunak have broken the law and repeatedly lied to the British public,” he said. Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, also said the prime minister should quit. Johnson has repeatedly dodged questions over whether he would quit should he be found to have broken his own lockdown laws. Speaking during a televised press conference on December 15, Johnson told the public: “I follow the rules.” Sunak told the House of Commons on December 7: “No, I did not attend any parties.” Earlier, Scotland Yard announced it had issued at least 30 more fines related to lockdown breaking parties in Downing Street and Whitehall. In total, the police said 50 referrals for fixed penalty notices (FPN) have so far been made. The Met is investigating 12 gatherings, including events attended by the prime minister and the chancellor. The revelations that gatherings were held at the top of government in breach of lockdown led to calls from many, including Tory MPs, that Johnson quit. “But the prime minister rebuffed the demands with his allies arguing the war in Ukraine meant it was the wrong time to change prime minister. One cabinet minister recently said “the world has moved on” on from public anger over the partygate scandal. But another Tory MP recently told HuffPost UK: “If he doesn’t get fined, he’s got away with it. But if he does, then all bets are off. “I think there will be resignations from government. If the prime minister breaks the law, then consequences must flow. Ed Davey, the Lib Dem leader, said parliament should be recalled to hold a no confidence vote in the prime minister. The Commons is currently not sitting as it is the Easter recess and is not due to return until next Tuesday.  This is a breaking news story and will be updated. Follow HuffPost UK on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.