Boris Johnson has faced a backlash for using the plight of Ukrainians as a “shield” as the prime minister apologised for breaking coronavirus laws. On Tuesday, the PM insisted he did not know he was breaching his own rules as he faced MPs in the Commons a week after being issued a police fine. Amid Tory discontent, with former chief whip Mark Harper telling Johnson he is no longer “worthy” of being premier, the PM bundled together his explanation for the fixed-penalty notice with Vladamir Putin’s “barbaric onslaught against Ukraine”. In fact, he suggested the “angry and disappointed” the British public felt over partygate meant he had an “even greater sense of obligation” to lead the country’s response to the war. Johnson told MPs: “I respect the outcome of the police investigation, which is still under way, and I can only say that I will respect their decision-making and always take the appropriate steps and, as the House will know, I have already taken significant steps to change the way things work in No 10.   “And it is precisely because I know that so many people are angry and disappointed that I feel an even greater sense of obligation to deliver on the priorities of the British people, and to respond in the best traditions of our country to Putin’s barbaric onslaught against Ukraine.” In the chamber, as Conservative MPs repeatedly referred to the war in Ukraine, Labour MP Jess Phillips suggested Johnson “seeks cover” by referring to the invasion, which is “shameful”. The sentiment was echoed on social media.  Watching Boris using the Ukrainians to cover for Partygate is a pretty low moment. Boris Johnson's use of Russia's war on Ukraine as a political shield for his own career is profoundly disturbing. using the devastating invasion of ukraine as a shield against his own criminality, and the criminality inside his government at a time when hundreds of thousands were dying in this country really is a new low for boris johnson Boris Johnson went to events while people couldn't see their family or loved ones and instead of using his statement to explain listed his own achievements and deflected with Ukraine. A deeply insulting farce. Johnson’s shameless segue from his rule breaking to the suffering of Ukrainians would be jarring even for The One Show This is going very badly for Boris Johnson.Appeals to the war in Ukraine and 'delivering on the priorities of the people' aren't washing.It doesn't help that he sounds rather bored of having to reiterate his apology, if not irritated with having to account to Parliament at all. It's a real shame the same session of the House has been used to debate Johnson's fixed penalties for breaking Covid registrations AND the UK's continuing support for Ukraine. They should be totally separate issues. It comes as MPs were granted a vote later this week on Johnson’s alleged lying against a backdrop of reports he could be issued more fines for breaking lockdown rules. Johnson’s comments to parliament come as Ukraine says the “battle for the Donbas” has begun, with the concentration of Russian forces in the eastern industrial heartlands likely to trigger the fiercest fighting yet – and requests from Volodymyr Zelenskyy for more Western support.