Boris Johnson has been issued with a fixed penalty notice for breaking his own Covid rules, No.10 has confirmed – and Twitter certainly has something to say about it. The prime minister, his wife Carrie Johnson and the chancellor Rishi Sunak, have all been fined by the Metropolitan Police for taking part in the partygate scandal. It’s certainly a bad look for No.10 and No.11, and has triggered a wave of people calling for both of them to resign from government. It comes months after speculation that the government was holding illegal parties during lockdowns enforced by ministers first emerged. Downing Street resolutely denied that any such parties had taken place for weeks and said no such laws were broken. As public fury climbed and more evidence of law-breaking behaviour was leaked to the press, Johnson told parliament that he shared the public’s fury over any potential breaches of the Covid laws. He allowed his former aide Allegra Stratton to resign over it, and called for senior civil servant Sue Gray to open an investigation into it. Her report is yet to be published as she submitted criminal evidence to the police, leading them to launch their own criminal investigation – and more than 50 subsequent fixed penalty notices over the parties. Now that the most senior member of government and his chancellor, who has already faced a flurry of bad press over his personal finances this week, Twitter has plenty to say about it.  No-one has forgotten how this saga all started... It has certainly taken the “unprecedented times” of the pandemic to a new level... People are asking if he should make an appearance on the TV show “Would I Lie To You?” after his repeated denials... ‘When I was Prime Minister I once told the entire country there were no parties in my house & I ended up being fined by the Met for having parties in my house’ pic.twitter.com/kFDvpixHVi People haven’t forgotten who wrote the Covid laws either... Bet Boris Johnson’s pretty pissed off at whoever made up that law he broke right now As of now Boris is no longer The Suspect. He is The Convict BREAKING: ‘I wasn’t aware it was a fixed penalty notice’ insists Boris Johnson. pic.twitter.com/L8dsR6tP6j Naturally, people are wondering if the prime minister will actually resign, especially if the chancellor steps down. If the Chancellor decided to quit as this fine tops a terrible week for him and he decides just to pack it in, where would that leave the PM? Poor Rishi. If only he knew someone with a few quid. https://t.co/HRrnXdnu9J For the Prime Minister and Chancellor to be fined while parliament is in recess and cannot be held to account by MPs is extraordinary. The Met Police are literally a law unto themselves He set the law. He broke the law. He has to go. Or else there's really no basis upon which government should pass law in the first place. How does a serving Prime Minister survive being fined by police for breaking laws that he enforced on the rest of the country? He clearly misled Parliament at best, deliberately lied to Parliament at worst. Very serious moment for Boris Johnson. Boris Johnson is the first sitting prime minister to be judged guilty of a crime Sunak the first Chancellor to be fined Carrie the first PM’s wife to be fined Downing Street is a crime scene#Partygate The week in Tory MPs so far: one convicted of molesting a minor, another having to apologise for defending said paedophile, PM and chancellor convicted of breaking the COVID laws they wrote. And it’s only Fucking Tuesday. Politics, eh? The Prime Minister now desperately needs Rishi Sunak to stick with him and not resign. If Sunak walked now he would salvage his reputation and also finish Johnson. Anyone holding their breath? And pretty much every Twitter users agrees – it’s a pretty terrible day for anyone in Downing Street. Hands.  Face.  Fined in disgrace. That sound you can hear is the shit hitting the fan. https://t.co/BBnz1Si2P8