This weekend sees the Celeb Wedding Of The Year take place, when British celebrity meets Miami society as Brooklyn Beckham marries American billionaire heiress Nicola Peltz. Brooklyn, 23, the eldest child of David and Victoria Beckham, popped the question to the 27-year-old Bates Motel actor with a £250,000 diamond ring back in July 2020. Since then, the loved-up couple have been keeping everyone entertained / amused / bemused / cringing (*delete as applicable) with their almost-daily PDAs on Instagram. So, apart from a load more gushing, cutesy IG posts, what else can we expect from their seriously lavish big day? Small change for Nicola’s dad Nelson Peltz, who is worth upwards of £1.3 billion (dwarfing the Beckhams’ paltry £380m), so we doubt there will be a prawn ring or vol-au-vent in sight.  The couple’s bash will take place at Nicola’s $76 million, 44,000 sq ft oceanfront family home in Palm Beach, Florida, known as “Montsorrel”. Huge marquees have been set up in the grounds ahead of Saturday’s bash. As well as the standard swimming pool and sprawling gardens, a flock of albino peacocks also roam the grounds. Despite neither bride nor groom being Jewish (Nicola’s father is said to be a devout Jew), the couple confirmed in a video for Vogue that it will be a Jewish wedding.  The ceremony will include glass-breaking, a chuppah (wedding canopy), a Hebrew blessing and even the signing of a ketubah (­marriage contract). Brooklyn also revealed that he’ll be wearing a yarmulke (a skullcap). The prenup stipulates that they will each retain their own assets and properties should they divorce, according to reports. Guards will be patrolling the estate with German Shepherd guard dogs and all guests will be tested prior to the Covid-secure reception. The couple have reportedly banned guests from taking pictures or using social media throughout the day, which might have something to do with the megabucks deal with Vogue magazine.  The fashion bible has nabbed exclusive rights to the first pictures of the bride and groom.  Posh and Becks sold their 1999 wedding pics exclusively to OK! magazine. Instead she’s opted for a selection of Valentino gowns. Speaking to CR Fashion Handbook, Nicola revealed how she and celeb stylist Leslie Fremar had been to Rome twice to work closely with Valentino’s Pierpaolo Piccioli to create her bridal looks. The bridal dress is reported to have cost in excess of £100,000. David Beckham gave a sneak peak of his wedding suit on Instagram. “I can’t dance,” Nicola confessed to Vogue, only for Brooklyn to pull a face and insist: “I’m gonna kill that.”  “I’m definitely going to cry. I’m not going to say the song she’s walking down [the aisle to], but when I hear the song, every time, I start to like [tear up],” Brooklyn said. Our money’s on Viva Forever by the Spice Girls. Romeo and Cruz will be best men, while sister Harper will be a bridesmaid. David Beckham will be Master of Ceremonies and is expected to give a short speech.  She has picked her maternal grandma, or “Naunnie”, as Maid of Honour, and her ice-hockey player brother Brad, 32, as “Man of Honour”. Among the 300 (!) guests reported to be attending are TV chef Gordon Ramsay, Victoria’s Secret model Gigi Hadid, Desperate Housewives star Eva Longoria, fashion designer Nicole Ritchie, Madonna’s son Rocco Ritchie, former footballer Phil Neville, American football legend Tom Brady and his wife, supermodel Gisele Bündchen. There are also rumours that Harry and Meghan could be putting in an appearance (*emphasis on rumours). Sir Elton can’t make it due to the rescheduling of his Yellow Brick Road tour, but his husband David Furnish (pictured above with Brooklyn and his mum Victoria) will be, as will the aspiring chef’s other godfather, Dave Gardner. Could Victoria finally be convinced to join Mel B, Geri, Emma and Mel C on stage for a special wedding day Spice Girls reunion? We have everything crossed. Rapper Snoop Dogg, AKA DJ Snoopadelic, will be manning the decks.  “David has been my boy for over ten years,” said the rapper. “And I am tight with his family. Brooklyn’s wedding is going to be a big affair and my gift to him and his wife-to-be is I will come down and do a set for them on their big day.”