Tory MPs launched blistering attacks on Boris Johnson today during a debate on the partygate scandal.  William Wragg, who has previously called for Johnson to quit, said Conservative MPs had been working in a “toxic atmosphere”. Meanwhile, Tory former minister Steve Baker withdrew his confidence in the PM and called for him to quit. “The prime minister now should be long gone,” Baker said. “Really, the prime minister should just know the gig’s up.” Wragg told the Commons: “It is utterly depressing to be asked to defend the indefensible. Each time, part of us withers The Tory chairman of the public administration and constitutional affairs committee, added: “I cannot reconcile myself to the prime minister’s continued leadership of our country and the Conservative Party”. The MP for Hazel Grove added: “The parliamentary party bears the scars of misjudgments of leadership. “There can be few colleagues on this side of the house I would contend who are truly enjoying being members of parliament at the moment.” Wragg added that he had questioned his place in the Conservative Party “in recent months”, but said he was “not going anywhere” and urged voters to stick with the Tories in the local elections. “I cannot reconcile myself to the prime minister's continued leadership of our country and the Conservative Party.” Indicating he would vote for an investigation into whether the PM misled the commons over partygate, Wragg added: “We each only have our own limited and imperfect integrity. We can’t keep spending it on others who we cannot be sure will not let us down.” Conservative former minister Sir Bob Neill added: “I will say, without having come to a final decision about the prime minister’s position, that I’m profoundly disappointed in what happened in No.10 Downing Street: people were badly let down, my constituents feel badly let down, I feel personally badly let down by what happened, and there must be consequences that follow from that.” It comes after the government dramatically ditched an attempt to delay a commons inquiry into partygate. In a “humiliating” last minute U-turn, they scrapped a bid to block a Labour motion calling for a committee inquiry into claims the prime minister misled parliament. Downing Street initially tried to postpone any decision by tabling an amendment saying they should wait until the Met Police investigation is complete and civil servant Sue Gray has published her report into the affair. But in the face of a potential Tory backbench rebellion, No.10 announced withdrew the amendment just minutes before MPs began debating the matter. Conservative MPs have been given a free vote on Labour’s original motion which means those who want to back it will be allowed to do so.