Rishi Sunak’s request for an independent probe into his own finances has certainly raised eyebrows, as Twitter hasn’t forgotten about the last government probe the public are still waiting for. The Sue Gray report into partygate (the Downing Street gatherings held in breach of the Covid social distancing rules in place at the time) is still not available to the public, weeks after it was initially expected. It was ordered by the prime minister and was sent to him first before anyone else, meaning it was not totally impartial. The senior civil servant will now not publish her findings until after the Metropolitan Police have conducted their own investigation into the same topic. The police have since issued 20 fixed penalty fines over the parties, but more are expected to follow in the coming days – although there’s still a lack of transparency about just which members of government might be fined. Even though Downing Street has tried very hard to move on from partygate altogether, people remain eager to read Gray’s full report. The furore felt around the parties does slightly resemble the outrage about Sunak’s finances after details about his family’s tax status went public. His wife, Akshata Murty, was found to be using a legal loophole to avoid paying UK taxes (although she has now promised to pay) while questions have been circling about Sunak’s US green card, which he only returned last October. This means he was the chancellor for more than a year while still paying US tax on his worldwide earnings. Owning a green card is also perceived as the first step towards becoming a certified US citizen, prompting further concerns about Sunak’s loyalty to the UK. So it is hardly surprising that many people started comparing Sunak’s request for an independent inquiry into his own finances to the elusive Sue Gray report. Here’s what everyone’s being saying on Twitter: BREAKING: Rishi Sunak has explained he did not know he was a resident of the US in the same way Boris Johnson did not know he was attending parties in his own house x I promise that this matter will be treated with the same degree of urgency as the Sue Gray Report. https://t.co/GPClGJKNln Sue Gray frantically switches on her out-of-office autoreply. https://t.co/Cn3nv0mEWs Let’s just hope this doesn’t take as long as the publication of Sue Gray’s Report. ⌛️ https://t.co/jRak4FP692 Voters are sensing a stitch up, but I have full confidence that Lord Geidt, the man who cleared Boris Johnson over his flat refurbishment, will do everything he can to clear Rishi Sunak's name. His integrity is impeccable. Just how stupid does Rish Sunak think we are?Calling for Lord Geidt to do another internal investigation is hardly going to be a crowd please FFSWe’re still waiting on the last investigation from Sue Gray #TorySleaze #ToryCorruption https://t.co/qtQTy5AK5r Maybe Rishi Sunak would like to form a queue when seeking an investigation on the leak of his wife’s tax affairs. We are still waiting for the outcome from Sue Gray and the Metropolitan Police! At least now we know why the Sunaks didn’t hear any of the Downing Street parties. She’s domiciled in India and he’s a permanent resident of the US. It is in fact the only explanation that makes sense.“Got Sue Gray on the phone. Asking about those nineteen illegal parties in your house again.”“Tell her I live in America. And I’ve got the proof.” Hope Sunak has to wait as long for his report into the leaks on his wife, as we have to wait for the Met Police report and Sue Gray report. The chancellor has also called for an inquiry into who leaked the details of his wife, Akshata Murty, and her non-domicile status over the weekend – which only prompted more Twitter reaction... I demand an inquiry into how I would have got away with it if it weren’t for you meddling kids https://t.co/vOBj61miDX Rishi Sunak does not thing we need a government enquiry into furlough fraud, PPE fraud or Covid loan fraud, but he does want a government enquiry into who leaked his tax affairs. How egotistical is that? Rishi Sunak orders an inquiry into the leak. The arrogance and lack of self-awareness beggars belief. Rishi Sunak hitting out for an inquiry into the “leak” of his wife’s tax affairs reminds me of Will Smith hitting Chris Rock over a comment about his wifeNeither ended well for the assailant