The Metropolitan Police have further delayed the publication of Sue Gray’s partygate report, prompting furious outrage on Twitter. The police have asked for “minimal reference” to the parties they are investigating to be included into the senior civil servant’s report, even though the internal probe was due for publication this week. The Met said: “For the events the Met is investigating, we asked for minimal reference to be made in the Cabinet Office report. “The Met did not ask for any limitations on other events in the report, or for the report to be delayed, but we have had ongoing contact with the Cabinet Office, including on the content of the report, to avoid any prejudice to our investigation.” Just two days ago, a Whitehall official told POLITICO’s Alex Wickham: “The report would be out in full by now if the Met hadn’t charged in. “It’s caused no end of complicated issues and the report may now have to look quite different.” It’s now believed the report will now be stripped of details of the “number of” parties being investigated by the Met. The police actually refused to investigate the alleged parties for several weeks, claiming they did look at “retrospective breaches” of Covid rules and that there was an absence of evidence. The new probe was reportedly launched once Gray passed evidence of criminal activity to the Met. Understandably, many members of the general public are frustrated at the prolonged wait of the report especially as the Cabinet Office’s internal inquiry was said to have been completed earlier this week. Here’s a round-up of the most scathing reactions to this fresh delay on Twitter: The Met:We’re not going to investigateWe’re not going to investigateWe’re not going to investigateWe’re not going to investigate*Sue Gray hands over all the piles of evidence*The MetOk we’ll investigate, but you can’t say shit I wonder why the Metropolitan Police refused to launch an investigation into No. 10 parties despite overwhelming evidence, and then only did so at exactly the right moment to sabotage a potentially highly damaging report.It is a real mystery! pic.twitter.com/9pV3B151m8 MET 2021: not important enough to investigate, happened too long ago.    MET 2022: too important for even Parliament to see.  #PartyGate I am not a criminal lawyer so perhaps I am missing something. How would a factual civil service report about events the police is investigating "prejudice" their investigation? I am a criminal lawyer, and I too must be missing something, because there is no reason I can see as to why an independent police criminal investigation would in any way be influenced by, or would seek to influence, a civil service report. https://t.co/OzjYPIq0kh Met position unfathomable: first, nothing to see here. Then, after Sue Gray conducts a proper investigation, they big foot a report which would have laid bare Covid rule-breaking under the noses of the coppers in Downing Street.  Am I missing something? You know there’s something rotten when criminal offences at the heart of government would be better investigated by the Met Office than the Met. Good job the Met Police didn't investigate straight away like they should have, otherwise they wouldn't have been able to help me out by covering up Sue Gray's report like this.#SueGrayReport Draft copy of Sue Gray's report after removing all the references to parties as requested by The Met. pic.twitter.com/2Jrjj9VFaH This is absolute nonsense from the Met PoliceA purely factual report by Sue Gray cannot possibly prejudice a police investigationThey just have to follow the evidence, of which the report will be a part https://t.co/RrRLe5BEYq Johnson's ability to sully & corrupt everything & everyone he comes in to contact with has now extended to the Metropolitan Police. If you wanted to save Johnson you'd publish the Gray report without the damaging stuff and the Met would carry out (then drop) a half baked investigation into the damaging stuff. 1/2 https://t.co/SbbEZi8X17 The Sue Gray report must be published in full and undoctored without further delay.This UK government farce has gone on long enough. People are understandably concerned that this increasingly looks like a cover-up. Perhaps not the main point, but surely the Met have skin in the game here too, given that this seems to have played out under the noses of their own officers. There’s an argument to say the Met should be nowhere near it https://t.co/PlBoRSkCTV This stinks!! I hope someone leaks the entire report. It’s in the public interest that we know everything that went on. Have the Met arrested anyone? NoAre proceedings imminent? NoThis looks like a desperate, cavalier interpretation of Contempt of Court Act 1981 https://t.co/9NzyMo84AB BREAKING: Cressida Dick with injury time winner for govt.