Marriage is full of highs, lows and a whole bunch of ordinary moments in between. And somehow, the spouses of Twitter continue to find humor in the minutiae of married life and sum it up perfectly in no more than 280 characters. Every other week, we round up the funniest marriage tweets of the previous 14 days. Read on for 27 new, relatable ones that will have you laughing in agreement. Woke up to my wife reading a parenting book so I feel like we’re all in for a real talkin-to today Wife: I just wish you would open up and tell me what you’re thinking.Me: OK, in the $1.50 Costco hotdog combo do you think the hot dog is $1 and the drink is $.50 or both $.75? my wife wants a divorce. She didn't say it in those words but she asked me to hang curtains so same thing. I used my husband’s shoes to check the mail and was immediately compelled to ask the neighbor kids why they trust the trees since they’re so shady 10: Dad, what's the opposite of "discombobulated?"Husband: Me, yelling from the kitchen: You don't know, do NOT say "combobulated!" My wife: did you find Lexi (dog).Me: I'm bringin' Lexy back. The thing no one told me is that once you get married, you suddenly develop telepathy. For example, my husband just now told me at the grocery store “come save me from this conversation with this person I don’t quite remember and I can’t pretend anymore.” me (gesturing at my feet): what do you think?my wife: those are the ugliest shoes I’ve ever seenme: I know—I love them! i was putting my 3 year old to bed last night and she was like “mommy can I see your boobs?” and I was like what why honey and she said “cause I haven’t seen them in a very long time!!!” and from outside the door I heard my husband mutter “join the club” Me: new yearWife: new you?Me: no My husband does this annoying thing where he doesn't continue probing me after I tell him I'M FINE I couldn’t sleep last night because my husband was breathing too quietly. I think I’ve unlocked a new level of marriage. My husband and dog are a lot alike. They both want what I’m eating and get startled awake by their own farts. My wife said “mid-century modern” a bunch of times while we were looking at backsplashes and now she is the host of a new show on HGTV. Wife: Did you return those phone calls?Me: I called back 100 percent of the people I wanted to talk to.Wife: So no one?Me: Yes. Marriage is telling the other person they snore and them saying they don't. Zoom schooling your children is really great for your marriage, said no one ever my husband embraced me tightly and inhaled deeply because i smelled like icy hot. this is how we flirt now.