A Labour MP has said she is considering her future in the party after “obsessive harassment” from current and former members. Rosie Duffield claimed in a series of tweets that “personal, libellous, nasty” things had been published about her.  The Canterbury MP has previously spoken out about receiving threats and abuse over her views on transgender rights and women’s rights. Duffield has also now accused the party’s leadership of doing little to protect her from harassment. Although, the party said it had offered “advice and support” to the MP. “Neither the Labour Party or either the former or current leader or the whips’ office have done anything at all to stop it, to offer me any support, help or legal assistance.” She described the new allegations about her living arrangements, made in an anonymous blogpost, as “obsessive harassment”. Duffield is expected to make a decision about her future within days after the apparent party member accused her of moving 200 miles away from her constituency to be with her partner in Wrexham. Duffield Tweeted: “I am aware of yet more personal, libellous, nasty and fictional c*** being published about me again today. “All published/written by ex and current Labour members who are clearly absolutely obsessed by my private life for some reason. “It is obsessive harassment. Neither the Labour Party or either the former or current leader or the whips’ office have done anything at all to stop it, to offer me any support, help or legal assistance. “Kent Police, Parliamentary Security team and the Speaker’s Office have been helpful but it is the Labour Party that have offered me no support at all since I unexpectedly became an MP five years ago. I am today considering my future in the party very carefully.” In September last year, Duffield ducked out of the Labour party’s annual conference after receiving online threats over her views on women’s rights.  I am sorry to hear what @RosieDuffield1 is going through. Within our own parties we have different views. Even during my outspoken Brexit days I never felt threatened by my party members.  Stay strong Rosie. You have a right to express your views without being cancelled out. https://t.co/BBUx9XC37O She argued there should be protected spaces where those assigned male at birth are not allowed to go, such as domestic violence refuges and prisons. However, Duffield said the latest issue in “no way relates to my stance on women’s rights.” Some Tory MPs have rowed in to support Duffield, with Bassetlaw’s Brendan Clarke-Smith tweeting: “Whilst all MPs receive abuse, this happens to female MPs and women in public life to a far greater extent. “I was on TV with Rosie only last week and found it refreshing to be able to debate and disagree in a civilised and decent manner. Maybe others should learn from this example.” A Labour spokesperson said: “The Labour Party continues to be in touch with Rosie Duffield and has offered her advice and support.”