Kids may say the darndest things, but parents tweet about them in the funniest ways. So each week, we round up the most hilarious quips from parents on Twitter to spread the joy. Scroll down to read the latest batch, and follow @HPUKParents on Twitter for more! Sully got in trouble so i took the iPad away. I went to check on him and i—I don’t have enough positive parenting experience for this so I’m leaving. pic.twitter.com/emWqpVFIV7 I gave 14 a side hug in public yesterday and she said "You know, distance makes my heart grow fonder." So today I'm going to yell "HUGS" from a distance when I drop her off with friends. No one talks enough about how kids losing their teeth is some alien ass shit We are trying to be those people with cereal in clear containers but I just don’t know if we have it in us. 6 is really into dinosaurs and he told me the other day i'm not allowed to play with his dinosaurs because i don't know how to say the dinosaur names correctly. tough rules coming from a person who had a difficult time reading the word ARM the other day. My 6 year old was quietly eating his cereal when he paused and said to no one, ‘I hope my sister isn’t a criminal when she grows up,’ and I feel like he summed up my parenting goals nicely. Catching up with friends in my 20s: How are you?Catching up with friends in my 30s: How are your kids? Catching up with friends in my 40s: How is your gallbladder? me: I have no free time anymore also me: *spends two hours on facebook investigating the divorce drama of someone I barely know* my husband has been teaching my 3 year old about football but explaining that toys on the floor are maximizing zone coverage was a bit much Me to my child: Its not good to chew gum unless someones watching you closely. Child: Watch me closely! Me: ………..  ………….  ….. . …. ………. ……no 6: So, you'll never get taller?Me: Nope, I can't grow taller-6: Only fatter, right? My 6yo told me he won’t wear jeans because they’re grumpy and now he’s my life coach 4, in an attempt to avoid bedtime, has come up with an adorable new excuse. Tonight from the monitor I heard this, “Momma, I’m having a bed party and you’re invited, when are you coming?” First you force your kids to be friends with your friends' kids, then they force you to be friends with their friends' parents.It's play date pay back. "I need to buy a book for school before tomorrow." ~ Kids, at 10pm Sunday night Nobody told me parenting would involve dumping out so many glasses of water.