There are few guarantees in life, but one thing you can always be sure of is that if Miriam Margolyes is a guest on a TV show, you’re in for some laughs.  The Harry Potter star has become a regular on the likes of The Graham Norton Show and This Morning, and is known for telling outrageous stories and anecdotes.  Having also fronted her own travel shows and appeared on The Real Marigold Hotel, we’ve seen a lot of her outside of her comfort zone too, which always serves up some hilarity.  So if you’re in need of a pick-me-up or a few laughs right now, here’s 20 of our favourite Miriam moments. “You outed me,” Miriam said, to which Phil countered: “You outed it!” “I fart a lot. But I think it brings people together. I do! I think it’s an encouraging, human thing to do.” In a special message to a fan, she also gifted them a surprise fart “especially for” them. We’re sure it’s just what they’d always wanted.  They were made strictly in a professional capacity, she insisted.  One was not amused.  “This is a fackin’ nightmare!” Awkward. And for the record, she is wrong.  “I thought she was a monster.” You could never accuse Miriam of being fake.  Matthew Perry described hearing the story as “the worst moment of my life”.  Can we just appreciate Miriam for a minute, please? pic.twitter.com/GxgtcZiF46 “Fuck! That’s old.” “You’ve either got to be prepared or have a very tough sphincter, and I don’t know that I have.” “Have a wank, have a fuck.. Enjoy yourself… But remember there is a real world outside, which is cruel, and people die.” “They were calling me Miriam Escobar!” Words to live by, we’re sure you agree.  The legend that is Miriam Margoyles #MiriamandAlan https://t.co/6ZcB2pNmQ4 pic.twitter.com/9WNzHckjO2 “Oh for fuck’s sake! Get the fucking thing off, before I pull it off.”  “That was before I was a lesbian, I was sorting myself out.” Seriously, don’t mess with Mim.  “Looking around, at this.. pretentious rabbit hutch.. there is no STYLE, there is no TASTE, there are no BOOKS!”  “She examined me, my front botty and my back botty, and of course they thought I wouldn’t like it…”