Boris Johnson is reportedly trying to move the attention away from him – and Partygate – by introducing new, dramatic proposals like cutting the license fee for the BBC. The prime minister is still in hot water after admitting that he attended a party in No.10 while the rest of the country was in lockdown. Further allegations of parties happening behind Downing Street’s doors have led even more people to call for his resignation. In a bid to save himself, according to the weekend reports, Johnson is now focusing on “Operation Red Meat” where the government will rush through controversial proposals to distract the backbench Tories who could hand in letters of no confidence about the prime minister. These proposals include freezing the BBC license fee – which costs 43p per day – and using the Royal Navy to deter asylum seekers arriving at the British coast in dinghies. Representing the government on Monday, education secretary Nadhim Zahawi also repeatedly tried to draw attention to Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer’s alleged breach of the Covid rules in May 2021. None of this went down particularly well on Twitter. What I’m not seeing - which is extraordinary given the polling - is any humility whatsoever. https://t.co/PDlU7bJNqt One of the many absurd things about this No 10 operation is the way they're so proud of their cunning plans that they tell everyone what they are in advance. Operation Red Meat ffs. The BBC is revered, respected and envied  around the world. It should be the most treasured of National treasures. Something true patriots of our country should be proud of. It should never be a voice for those in government whoever is in power. https://t.co/4aR5cmDLI1 I can only assume that all those Conservatives saying that if people want BBC services they can pay to subscribe to them apply the same philosophy to the Royal Family I see the desperate government is flailing wildly between asylum seekers and the BBC in its attempts to cynically distract from its own scandals Grim to the bitter end The BBC license fee costs everyone exactly the same, however rich or poor they are. It’s entirely non-progressive, just like the poll tax. So why do right wing people hate it so much? It should be right up their street. Slashing the funding of a beloved national treasure just because you don't like the headlines on the 6 o'clock news is no way for a responsible government in a democracy to behave. A reminder that it was the Tories who stopped offering free TV licences for over-75s as part of their austerity cuts. https://t.co/8VSclzIEog the irony of Nadine Dorries defunding the one British thing which is actually world beating is an irony which Nadine Dorries definitely won’t understand If, as the Government is implying re the BBC, we should only pay for something we like and agree with, I wonder if I can ask for all the money back I’ve had to spend in taxes on Brexit. Something especially disturbing about "calling in the military"/renewing efforts to offshore asylum seekers for processing when it's such a transparent attempt to cling onto power. I think sending military personnel into the Channel to turn around asylum seekers is:A) An overreactionB) UnnecessaryCan someone give me a good reason why it isn't an overreaction and why it is necessary? This is really desperate stuff and isn't convincing anyone. Even the people going along with it are pretending. https://t.co/rOtM8dx96M Looking at tomorrow's Daily Mail and see they are desperately still trying to make the Keir-Starmer-has-one-beer-with-dinner story a thing. pic.twitter.com/1FYrfpq0Ob