Boris Johnson has been accused of repeatedly misrepresenting even his own policies during prime minister’s questions on Wednesday. Various words were used to describe the PM’s responses – fibs, untruths, errors – as Labour said Johnson got not just their positions wrong, but some of his own. Among the most obvious followed a call from Labour for a cut in VAT on energy bills, with Johnson then referring to the Warm Home Discount. He said the help with energy bills “supports 2.2 million people to the tune of £140 a week”. The Warm Home Discount – however – is worth £140 per winter. It was picked up finance guru Martin Lewis and the Full Fact fact-checking website, among others. To clarify when Boris Johnson says the Warm Home Discount for vulnerable people pays £140/wk its actually an one-off annual £140It is due to rise to £150 (up 7%) the first rise in over 5yrs. Yet energy bills are due to rise 50% in April. More must be done to help the vulnerable https://t.co/jPjT0QA1xW At #PMQs, Boris Johnson said the government supports more than two million households with their energy bills “to the tune of £140 a week”. It’s actually £140 for the entire winter. https://t.co/alXmsZyuqv Here are the other contested statements made by Johnson during the session. Johnson did not take the opportunity to correct his comments on inflation when challenged to do so by Labour’s deputy leader Angela Rayner. Rayner, in a point of order, said she was sure that the Prime Minister did not wish to mislead MPs and asked him to correct the record after he had denied saying in an interview in October that fears about inflation were unfounded. But he did not respond. Rayner, who was standing in for Keir Starmer after the Labour leader tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, said: “In October the prime minister said that fears about inflation were unfounded, but working people across the country are starting the new year facing rising bills and ballooning prices, so how did he get it so wrong?” Johnson replied: “Of course I said no such thing because inflation is always something that we have to be careful about.” But Sky News journalist Beth Rigby then tweeted a clip of the interview where Johnson said “people have been worrying about inflation for a very long time, I’m looking at robust economic growth, and by the way those fears have been unfounded”. Downing Street later declined to correct Johnson’s words. The prime minister’s official spokesman said: “Obviously we’re acutely aware of the pressures that inflation can cause. The interview you’re referring to related to October, it was not a prediction of what might come next.” today's untruths from Boris Johnson at #PMQs:- that he never said inflation fears were "unfounded"- that Tory government has built new nuclear plants - that Warm Homes Discount is £140/week (tis £140/winter)- that Labour would rejoin EU- that Labour wanted Xmas lockdown The prime minister told the Commons Labour had called for a “road map to lockdown” after the emergence of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The prime minister’s press secretary said: “They were calling for tougher measures and for a road map back into lockdown so that was simply what he was talking about.” But Labour’s shadow health secretary Wes Streeting said: “At no point over Christmas or New Year has Labour called for a new lockdown. We backed Plan B measures – without us they wouldn’t have passed – and have urged the government to do more on sick pay, school ventilation and testing.” PM fibs at #PMQs (list may not be exhaustive)+ Labour wanted another lockdown - didn’t even argue for tougher restrictions+ Denies saying inflation fears “unfounded” - he did (in Oct)+ Labour wants to rejoin EU - errr !+ “Poverty is down” - relative poverty is up (a lot) Johnson said that Labour’s objective was to rejoin the EU. But in an interview with The Daily Telegraph in March, Starmer said: “We’ve left. We are no longer a member of the EU. We’ve got a deal, we’ve got to make that deal work. “There’s no case for rejoining the EU and I’ve been very clear about that. The Remain-Leave debate is over.” A Labour spokesman said: “We saw repeatedly from the prime minister at prime minister’s questions today misrepresentations of Labour’s position and factual errors about his own position.” In response to a question from the Scottish National Party’s Westminster leader Ian Blackford, Johnson said: “If we look at the statistics, we see that economic inequality is down in this country. Income inequality is down and poverty is down.” There is no universally accepted recognition of poverty, but the two most commonly used measures are absolute poverty – less than 60% of the median income for 2010/11, adjusted for inflation – and relative poverty – less than 60% of the median income for that financial year. A report from the House of Commons library from October said: “Overall, levels of relative poverty have been fairly steady over the past few years, but this varies between population groups: the proportion of children and pensioners in relative poverty is higher than it was five years ago.” The Office for National Statistics, in its latest release on the issue, said income inequality steadily increased to 36.3%. The organisation said this was “the highest reported measure of income inequality over the 10-year period” up to the end of the 2020 financial year.