The famous Sesame Street character Elmo is suddenly being celebrated on the internet as people finally catch on to just how sassy the puppet really is. The trend seemed to begin with a 2015 flashback video shared on The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon’s Twitter account, where Elmo shows people how to make a ‘sloppy Oscar’ burger from his cookbook Let’s Cook. The clip began circulating because of Elmo’s strange way of pronouncing balsamic vinegar, reminding everyone why the fluffy red puppet – who has been a three-and-a-half-year-old Muppet on Sesame Street since 1980 – is so memorable. .@Elmo teaches Jimmy and @questlove how to make a Sloppy Oscar: onions, garlic, celery, and of course, a little balsamic vinegar. #FallonFlashback pic.twitter.com/gj9tQwYSqi Pretty soon, everyone started sharing their own favourite Elmo snippets – and he went viral on Twitter and Instagram. there are tears in my eyes y’all my stomach hurting pic.twitter.com/bbkF9yDZLf This is actually one of my favorite Elmo clips.... pic.twitter.com/lUrkwJh8A8 Elmo vs Rocko the greatest rivalry of all time pic.twitter.com/4aRbR6OUAS Zoe and Rocko casually driving Elmo into madness is the funniest thing pic.twitter.com/BVGJ1zyLQu The way Elmo walked off is SENDING ME pic.twitter.com/xl6aiHcAOE DAWG! elmo has had enough with the shenanigans lol! i shouldn’t be laughing at this pic.twitter.com/Sp1uB8YpGo I feel very drawn to unhinged Elmo I feel that we are twin flames 2022 starting off with Unhinged Elmo vs A rock, letting me know that this is the year of stress and violence it may have been a terrible start to the year but at least elmo is trending all these elmo content on my twitter making me stan elmo  go sassy queen The way I’m dying right now. Okay cuz we need an Elmo for adults because why was I entertained Why did we all hate Elmo so much growing up? These two videos I’ve RT in a short time? What a little king. pic.twitter.com/y2zB3JyvgY Elmo getting real tired of everyone's shit these days. pic.twitter.com/ALxx93fPIY Elmo is all of us these past three years experiencing craziness that just won’t end https://t.co/GWIGDKDiBz Unhinged Elmo is the greatest genre pic.twitter.com/hEPAdPfWXc