Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra are now parents. Both confirmed the happy news in a message posted to their separate Instagram accounts on Friday. “We are overjoyed to confirm that we have welcomed a baby via surrogate,” the two wrote in their joint message. “We respectfully ask for privacy during this special time as we focus on our family.” Priyanka recently spoke of the couple’s desire to have children in a Vanity Fair profile published last week.  “They’re a big part of our desire for the future,” the actor said. “By God’s grace, when it happens, it happens.”  In another recent interview, Priyanka joked that she wanted to have a “cricket team” of kids.  “I do want children, as many as I can have,” she told the Sunday Times before slightly walking back her comment. “A cricket team? I’m not so sure.” Priyanka and Nick made a notable appearance together at the 2017 Met Gala, though things only became romantic in 2018 after the musician slid into the former Miss World 2000’s DMs.  The two married in December that same year in two lavish wedding ceremonies, which included Chopra wearing a 75-foot veil that five people helped to carry.  Though the couple have been married for years now, Priyanka recently sparked divorce rumours in November after she dropped “Jonas” from her Instagram handle. The famous couple shut down the rumours hours later when she responded to a video of him lifting weights with a flirty comment. Since then, the two have shared several cozy photos of themselves on each of their Instagram accounts. In the same Vanity Fair profile in which Priyanka expressed her desire to have children, she also addressed the downsides of social media, especially as it relates to her relationship.  “It’s a very vulnerable feeling, actually, that if I post a picture, everything that’s behind me in that picture is going to be zoomed in on, and people are going to speculate,” she told the magazine. “It’s just a professional hazard.” “Because of the noise of social media, because of the prevalence that it has in our lives, I think it seems a lot larger than it is,” she added. “I think that we give it a lot more credence in real life, and I don’t think it needs that.”