While this year’s awards season has faced a bit of disruption so far – with a muted Golden Globes and a rescheduled Grammys – the Brit Awards are currently scheduled to go ahead as normal, following 2021′s delayed and scaled-back event.  With now only a matter of weeks to go until the 2022 ceremony, here’s everything we can tell you about the biggest night in the British music calendar. Following Jack Whitehall’s departure from the Brits after four years, it was confirmed in November last year that Mo Gilligan will be taking the helm of the awards in 2022.  “I’m truly honoured to be asked,” he said. “We’re already in the extensive planning stages and all I can say is, I promise we’re going to give it all we’ve got to create an incredible night for music fans everywhere. Let’s go!” Mo later revealed that after a jam-packed year, he wanted to donate his Brits fee to Five X More, a grassroots charity aiming to help improve “Black women and birthing people’s maternal health outcomes in the UK”. “I believe in giving back so I’m going to be donating my fee for the Brits to Five X More. They do extraordinary work and when the spotlight is on me I must shine it on others,” he tweeted. Maya Jama and Clara Amfo have also been announced as the co-hosts of the red carpet coverage for the event. Brits bosses have ditched gendered categories for the first time, replacing “male” and “female” awards with Artist Of The Year and International Artist Of The Year. They have also introduced four new genre-specific categories for Best Alternative/Rock Act, Best Hip-Hop/Grime/Rap Act, Best Dance Act and Best Pop/R&B Act. Brit Awards chair Tom March said: “It is important that the Brits continue to evolve and aim to be as inclusive as possible. It feels completely the right time to celebrate the achievements of artists for the music that they create, and the work that they do, irrespective of gender. “I’m really excited to launch four new genre awards, which create even more opportunities for artists to be acknowledged for the brilliant music they create and produce, and give music fans the chance to get involved and vote to support their artists and help them to win a Brit.” Music lovers will be able to decide the winners of the new genre-specific categories in a public vote powered by TikTok.  The dedicated voting hub on the social media app opened on Thursday 20 January and will close at 6pm on Thursday 3 February.  TikTok users can cast up to 10 votes per category, per day, with vote limits resetting at midnight for the duration of the voting window. It’s probably no surprise that Adele is among the top nominees leading the way, with Dave, Little Simz and Ed Sheeran joining her on four nods each. All four of these artists are in the running for the coveted Album Of The Year prize, as well as being nominated in the inaugural Best British Artist category.  Other UK-centric acts up for awards include Sam Fender, Little Mix, Dua Lipa and Coldplay , while international acts like Lil Nas X, Billie Eilish, Central Cee, David Guetta and reigning Eurovision winners Måneskin are also up for multiple prizes. Check out the full list of nominations lower down the page.  As with previous years, the winner of the Rising Star category has been announced ahead of the ceremony, with Holly Humberstone awarded the prize over Bree Runway and Lola Young.  She follows in the footsteps of previous winners including Adele, Sam Smith, Ellie Goulding, Emeli Sandé, Celeste and Griff.  As part of the award, Holly will also be performing at the ceremony, speaking of which... Dave, Doja Cat, Ed Sheeran, Holly Humberstone, Liam Gallagher and Little Simz have all so far been confirmed to take to the stage during this year’s ceremony.  While Brits bosses have so far remained tight-lipped on whether any other performers are still to be announced, we’d say it is a safe bet there will be more additions in the coming days. We have everything crossed for an Adele showstopper.  The Brit Awards 2022 will air live from London’s O2 Arena on Tuesday 8 February on ITV, time tbc.  ALBUM OF THE YEAR Adele – 30 Dave – We’re All Alone In This Together Ed Sheeran – = Little Simz – Sometimes I Might Be Introvert Sam Fender – Seventeen Going Under SONG OF THE YEAR A1 x J1 – Latest Trends Adele – Easy On Me Anne Marie x KSI x Digital Farm Animals – Don’t Play Becky Hill and David Guetta – Remember Central Cee – Obsessed With You Dave and Stormzy – Clash Ed Sheeran – Bad Habits Elton John and Dua Lipa – Cold Heart (Pnau Remix) Glass Animals – Heatwave Joel Corry, Raye and David Guetta – Bed KSI – Holiday Nathan Evans, 220 Kid and Billen Ted – Wllerman Riton x Nightcrawlers feat. Mufasa & Hypeman – Friday Russ Million x Tion Wayne – Body Tom Grennan – Little Bit Of Love ARTIST OF THE YEAR Adele Dave Ed Sheeran Little Simz Sam Fender GROUP OF THE YEAR Coldplay D-Block Europe Little Mix London Grammar Wolf Alice INTERNATIONAL ARTIST Billie Eilish Doja Cat Lil Nas X Olivia Rodrigo Taylor Swift INTERNATIONAL GROUP ABBA BTS Måneskin Silk Sonic The War On Drugs INTERNATIONAL SONG OF THE YEAR ATB x Topic x A7S – Your Love (9PM) Billie Eilish – Happier Than Ever CKay - Love Nwantiti Doja Cat and SZA – Kiss Me More Drake and Lil Baby – Girls Want Girls Galantis, Little Mix and David Guetta – Heartbreak Anthem Jonasu – Black Magic Lil Nas X – Montero (Call Me By Your Name) Lil Tjay and 6lack – Calling My Phone Måneskin – I Wanna Be Your Slave Olivia Rodrigo – good 4 u Polo G – Rapstar The Kid Laroi and Justin Bieber – Stay The Weeknd – Save Your Tears Tiesto – The Business BEST NEW ARTIST Central Cee Griff Joy Crookes Little Simz Self Esteem RISING STAR Bree Runway Holly Humberstone (already announced as winner) Lola Young POP/R&B ACT Adele Dua Lipa Ed Sheeran Griff Joy Crookes DANCE ACT Becky Hill Calvin Harris Fred again.. Joel Corry Raye ALTERNATIVE/ROCK ACT Coldplay Glass Animals Sam Fender Tom Grennan Wolf Alice HIP-HOP/GRIME/RAP ACT AJ Tracey Central Cee Dave Ghetts Little Simz