Culture secretary Nadine Dorries has issued a warning about buying tickets from touts – by tweeting a viral photo of former prime minister David Cameron. On Sunday, the ex-Tory leader and his wife Samantha were pictured in matching tartan as they watched an amateur horse racing event in Gloucestershire. The photo quickly became the basis of a meme on social media, with many joking the outfit made Cameron look like the kind of shady character you might find at a pub or car boot sale. And Cabinet minister Dorries, who once described her one-time party leader as an “arrogant posh boy”, joined in the fun. She wrote: “Whether it’s a major music festival, sporting event or concert, it’s important that people pay a fair price to see the events they love. Please remain vigilant when considering to buy from ticket touts. Guidance is available if you are unsure.” Whether it’s a major music festival, sporting event or concert, it's important that people pay a fair price to see the events they love. Please remain vigilant when considering to buy from ticket touts. Guidance is available if you are unsure: https://t.co/KtbLBcD0wK pic.twitter.com/XGCnISBkgk Last week, Dorries accused a Tory MP who claims to have faced “intimidation” from their party of “attention-seeking behaviour”. Many pointed out this was a comment made by the same politician who once appeared on I’m A Celebrity … Get Me Out Of Here and ate ostrich anus on TV.  In any case, Dorries appeared to be going with the consensus in her ribbing. David Cameron looks like he would give you a lot of unsolicited fruit machine advice pic.twitter.com/JbrYfL5ODP David Cameron is turning into Mike Ashley. pic.twitter.com/CRt74XyJOu David Cameron looks like he is about to apply for a HGV driver vacancy. pic.twitter.com/gaj6dKWji0 David Cameron stands up the front of the bus, talking to the driver pic.twitter.com/DNOLp3jkLz David Cameron looks like the sort of bloke who would try and sell you bacon from a holdall in a pub. pic.twitter.com/U2EXBWbH3k David Cameron looks like a Minnesota dairy farmer, who takes bungs from the local chemical company in order to stay quiet about the vampire cows pic.twitter.com/WRE1mWKKjv David Cameron looking like he’s standing in a sinister Lincolnshire barn here, betting on bare knuckle boxing. pic.twitter.com/WXHu1BeXXM Last year, Cameron was embroiled in controversy over his intense lobbying for collapsed finance firm Greensill Capital – which was laid bare in 45 emails, texts and WhatsApp messages to ministers and officials. The four-month campaign asking for government support of the firm, conducted at the height of the Covid pandemic, included no less than 56 texts to serving Tory ministers.