Prince Andrew settled the civil case against him brought by Virginia Giuffre out of court this week – and the internet has not stopped mocking him. The Duke of York was accused of sexual assault by Giuffre, who alleges the royal had sex with her three times between 2000 and 2002 when she was a teenager and being trafficked by convicted sex offenders Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell. He has vehemently denied all allegations against him, and told BBC Newsnight in 2019 that he had never met Giuffre. He also claimed that he was Pizza Express in Woking on one of the dates Giuffre alleged they had met. Only last month, Andrew announced that he wanted a jury trial to address her allegations. In an abrupt U-turn, the royal has now confirmed he will be paying an undisclosed amount to Giuffre’s charity for victims of sexual abuse in a settlement. In a joint statement, the royal commended Giuffre’s bravery and acknowledged she is a victim of abuse – but stopped short of actually apologising or admitting any liability. The sudden change of heart did not go unnoticed on the internet, especially amid reports that Giuffre may receive up to £12million in the settlement, a tidy sum which the Queen is said to have contributed towards. All in all, not many people are impressed with the Royal Family right now. Here’s a roundup of the best responses to Andrew’s decision to settle after months of back and forth with Giuffre’s legal team: The scene in a future series of The Crown where Andrew asks his mum for the money to pay off Virginia Giuffre. pic.twitter.com/TeDHW7cDE3 Silencing a victim of sexual exploitation so the Queen can have a party. Rancid. pic.twitter.com/CdmVms5Vha No. https://t.co/VYYHTEj3c1 Wait. Does this mean Andrew Windsor was *not* at Pizza Express in Woking? THANK GOD PRINCE ANDREW DIDN’T EAT AN AVOCADO 🥑 Don't no one ever say again that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle dragged down the reputation of the Royal Family.Ever again. He must have cancelled his Netflix account. https://t.co/LvU5Kfnbjw Never met her. Don’t remember the photograph. I was in pizza express in woking. Can’t sweat. I demand a trial by jury. Ok here’s a big pile of money. Prince Andrew should have spent his childhood becoming a really really excellent dancer, then he'd have legions of people defending this £12m gagging fee. Shit dancer though so we ALL think it's repulsive and he's the scum of the earth. Official royal gift guideSilver Jubilee: Silver necklaceDiamond Jubilee: A really nice hatPlatinum Jubilee: The temporary silence of a sex trafficking victim who accused your son of sexual assault pic.twitter.com/YI5fMWQtTj As Boris Johnson continues to explore ways to avoid consequences of any kind over Partygate, Prince Andrew asks if he’s considered simply handing Sue Gray a massive bag of cash. Ohhhhhhh The grand old Duke of YorkHe borrowed 12 million quidHe gave it to someoneHe’d never ever met and for something he never did I'm glad Prince Andrew can put this behind him and get back to his important job of getting paid for doing nothing Prince Andrew in January: I demand a jury hear my casePrince Andrew now: actually, let's definitely not do that pic.twitter.com/mAzbzwcbAN Listen guys, if Prince Andrew is handing out 10 million quid to women he’s never even met I might take a punt myself.