Boris Johnson’s government faced further setbacks this week as the cost of living crisis escalated and five of the prime minister’s senior aides quit. The prime minister has tried to save face by maintaining that the restructuring in No.10 is all related to his promise to change the culture of his offices over the Partygate scandal. However, this message was undermined by the scathing resignation letter from one of his closest allies, policy chief Munira Mirza, who said it was Johnson’s Jimmy Savile slur towards Sir Keir Starmer which was the final straw for her. He reportedly tried to claw back some support from Tory backbenchers on Friday by quoting from the Lion King’s Rafiki: “Change is good, and change is necessary even though it is tough.” But, a growing number of Tory MPs are handing in their letters of no confidence in a bid to oust the prime minister, while the energy price hike has further diminished Johnson’s reputation with the public this week. It’s not all doom and gloom though, as Twitter has rolled out some of its best jokes to mock the current mayhem in government. Shitting the bed is good, actually pic.twitter.com/eE52K5f0Pu Name me a better film than 'a Tory premiership falling to pieces in real time' https://t.co/H8FTsiiZlZ To be fair, Boris Johnson (and Rafiki) are right - change is good. So let’s change this shit Prime Minister for a good one. https://t.co/lnoUYKBj6F https://t.co/ck0GRhgqPp pic.twitter.com/X9SgMbCQ13 how is nadine going to get him out of this I no longer know whether to laugh or cry https://t.co/ru9h5nij1z If this was Wordle they’d all magically get it on the first go. pic.twitter.com/5aOOO8Nddn "Pleased to see the Captain's planned manoeuvres have gone ahead as he promised on Monday. We will continue to press ahead to New York to fulfil the people's priorities." pic.twitter.com/xjwgg47zYp The latest cut and paste tweets from operation Save Big Knob. https://t.co/Rq5m33tEGi So now Boris Johnson has compared his failing government to The Lion King. Is the Lion King the one where a lion falsely accuses another lion of failing to prosecute a paedophile? Because otherwise I don't think the comparison works. Boris Johnson told Number 10 staff that 'change is good' this morning. Though clearly not so good when it comes to himself Downing Street pic.twitter.com/0DgrcOmwmZ Boris Johnson won't resign. They'll have to drag the man from the building. He wants to go down in history as one of the greats. It's been his life's aim - and currently he's on course to be remembered as perhaps the worst Prime Minister of the last 120 years. Boris Johnson is the school bully who has somehow got away with everything but the entire school board decides to expel him after the final straw which was yelling "PEDO!" at a prefect. Did Boris just call himself The Lying King? #LionKing #BorisJohnsonOut10 pic.twitter.com/wwihYz0nyu “I quit; everyone else is resigning and I don’t want to get stuck here with just Boris Johnson” pic.twitter.com/3B8Ew2ops1 What you are witnessing is me taking decisive action to refresh and strengthen my team. It definitely isn't a mad scramble by rats desperate to get off a ship before it sinks. Seriously though, they picked the PERFECT shade of blue in the briefing room, cheers lads! pic.twitter.com/93vuwoj7tw