From quicksand to the Bermuda Triangle, a number of things we feared as children turned out to be fairly irrelevant as we grew older. The good news is we can look back, laugh and tweet about them. We’ve rounded up 25 funny and relatable tweets about our biggest childhood fears. Contrary to childhood education, falling anvils, pianos, and safes have not been a significant danger in my life. My health anxiety is quite bad at the moment but at least I no longer have the constant fear of spontaneous combustion which took up a significant part of my childhood. When I was a kid I thought worms popping out of apples I bit into was gonna be a much bigger problem BIGGEST CHILDHOOD FEAR, EVER: pic.twitter.com/6Ui8WFWQ I think my childhood fear of piranhas might have been a bit overblown because they haven’t really featured as much in my life as I thought they would. And by as much I mean, not at all. Anyone else as spooked as I was reading The Face on the Milk Carton as a kid? What was your most irrational childhood fear? I was scared to eat gushers because I thought they would turn my head into fruit. i wont lie as a child i was always scared i would find a worm in my apples i would never eat them straight alway have them sliced https://t.co/vQVwS19leZ Things you feared deeply in childhood that turned out not to be much of an issue in adult life: quicksand. Things I was taught to worry about growing up that ended up not being a thing:* quicksand* stop drop and roll * Bermuda Triangle * razor blades in Halloween candy * spontaneous human combustion * always have a quarter in your kangaroo shoe pocket so you can call home The true 90s child experience is thinking about that Rugrats episode where Chuckie swallows a watermelon seed and fear a watermelon will grow inside him whenever you accidentally eat any kind of fruit seed I remember when I was a kid and had a genuine fear of spontaneous combustion like straight up catching on fire just sitting in my room watching transformers the books I was assigned in high school were nowhere near as chaotic as the ones they made me read in middle school. My Brother Sam Is Dead?!The Face on the Milk Carton?!?! Number the Stars?!??!!???? Irrational Childhood FearI love Inspector Gadget, but I was always scared to get a letter that said 'this message will self-destruct' because I was worried that sheets of paper could explode if you just wrote that, and I wouldn't know where to safely throw it away in time. 🗒️💣 Today, I wonder if anyone else will admit to having an irrational childhood fear of getting scurvy. #talklikeapirateday Looney Tunes had my kid brain always scared that I would accidentally touch a bunch of Poison Ivy. Never mind the fact that I lived in NYC... i was honestly so concerned about blackholes as a child. i genuinely thought they’d be a much bigger problem than they turned out to be. Me as a kid:  the Bermuda Triangle, quicksand, being caught in a lava flow, spontaneous human combustion, and alien abduction are going to cause major problems in my adult life.Me as an adult: If only life was that simple.