Vladimir Putin has just declared war on Ukraine after weeks of threats, leaving the country in chaos. Despite repeated warnings from the West about invading Ukraine, Russian troops swept through parts of the European nation overnight and demanded its military lay down its arms. Putin claimed he does not intend to occupy Ukraine with his “special military operation” but his actions suggest otherwise. Ukrainian president Volodmyr Zelenskyy has vowed to fight the Russian forces to protect the country’s sovereignty, and it has just severed all diplomatic relations with Russia. Martial law is now in place across Ukraine and warning sirens have erupted across the country while rocket attacks have started targeted Ukrainian fighter jets at an airport outside Kyiv. The country’s state emergency service reported attacks against 10 Ukrainian regions, particularly in the east and south. Allegedly, Ukraine forces shot down five Russian aircrafts and a helicopter in the Luhansk region. Information about shootings is still coming in. The public are now seeking shelter underground in the capital of Kyiv and neighbourhood countries, while the UK government has urged British nationals to evacuate. The Foreign Office released a statement early on Thursday which read: “We advise British nationals to leave Ukraine immediately if you judge it is safe to do so. “If you cannot leave safely, you should stay indoors, away from windows and remain alert to developments that would allow you to leave safely.” Here are some of the latest images emerging from the ground this morning: Reportedly the airfield outside Mariupol burning pic.twitter.com/aeNT9lTRIh Arms depot in Kalynivka blown up, @nexta_tv reports pic.twitter.com/aH5S7OpJ2d Border guard post in Kyiv region hit, probably by a missile strike, Ukrainian authorities say https://t.co/eylbmzIyml pic.twitter.com/QEwmzZ9ygd I am at Kharkiv train station: hundreds of people are queuing to buy tickets and flee eastern #Ukraine... pic.twitter.com/TCxSEOsbHc Russian media show Luhansk separatists fighting with Ukrainians pic.twitter.com/6E8CFreUry Huge traffic jams in #Kyiv. People are trying to leave the capital and drive west #Ukraine pic.twitter.com/0pkarLjXdM Air raid siren heard after 7/8 Explosions heard in Kyiv.Russian MOD says it’s targeting military sites.The feared large scale escalation to this war appears to be happening. pic.twitter.com/eJKuWpwpkd 9. VIDEO: Ukraine residential buildings shelled. @AFP Firefighters and residents on the scene of shelled buildings in Chuguev, Ukraine, as Russian President Vladimir Putin launches a military operation in Ukraine with explosions heard across the country pic.twitter.com/90BG2y2gZ5