Valentine’s day is officially round the corner and there can be a lot of pressure to book an expensive restaurant for the special day. But you don’t need to fork out the big bucks to show your partner or friend how much you care about them. There are loads of affordable ways you can treat that special person in your life, including a blow-out brunch at home. The team at bottomlessbrunch.com have compiled a selection of simple and delicious recipes for you to try this weekend. And if you don’t have someone to cook with? Nothing says self-love like a huge stack of pancakes. Enjoy.  If sweet treats put a smile on your loved one’s face, then heart-shaped pancakes have to be on the menu for your romantic brunch. You can top your tasty stack with any ingredients you fancy, but if you’re wanting to give your pancakes that Valentine’s Day feel, then use fresh red fruit like strawberries and raspberries. Ingredients Method The brunch classic, eggs florentine with smoked salmon, is a great savoury option. This tasty dish is not only full of flavour but its key ingredients salmon and spinach have the added benefit of being an aphrodisiac – perfect to set sparks flying if you’re cooking with a date.  Serves: 2  Ingredients Method Is there a better way to say ‘I love you,’ than with mouth-wateringly good waffles? This recipe gives you a reason to bring the delicious dessert favourite, red velvet, to your brunch and certainly makes a big red Valentine’s Day statement. Serves: 4 Ingredients: Method: Eggs, bacon and avo on toast is a classic combination that is great for every brunch, but if you’re looking for a way to turn up the romance, heart-shaped fried eggs are the way to go.  Serves: 2 Ingredients  Method Just like you and your loved one, chocolate and strawberries make the perfect pair, especially rolled up in a french toast roll. This indulgent brunch is great for anyone with a sweet tooth and will definitely cure any chocolate cravings.  Ingredients  Method: Ruby-red pomegranate mimosas are a great boozy accompaniment to any brunch dish this V-Day. This cocktail is also super easy to create with only three ingredients, making it a great choice if you’re having a bottomless brunch. Serves: 4 Ingredients: Method:  If your significant other loves a cocktail but is deciding to sit the booze out on this occasion, then this is the ultimate mocktail recipe to try. Bringing you all of the flavours of a classic cosmopolitan, you won’t miss the alcohol in this mocktail.  Serves: 1 Ingredients: Method: