Journalists attempting to report on Storm Eunice while standing right in the eye Storm Eunice is exactly what everyone needed to see today, according to Twitter. People have been sharing all of their favourite moments of reporters caught in the middle of the extreme weather in honour of Friday’s dramatic storm. The Met Office released a red weather warning for south west England, Wales, London and south east England, this week meaning the conditions are now extremely dangerous. However, that hasn’t stopped some broadcasters sending out their most hardy reporters to cover the dramatic events for a few minutes at a time. Here’s a roundup of some of the funniest clips cheering the public up: #AccidentalPartridge wait for it…  pic.twitter.com/3nzjTPtzBJ Sky News reporter battered by a wave.“The advice is really to stay inside.” pic.twitter.com/hJS1RKVRCm This is the mood for the day pic.twitter.com/W6nBZ2xsPI Brace yourself for a day of reporters doing this on news programmes… pic.twitter.com/CuQmCCkTS1 Morning TV host: now we have Andrew on the south coast this morning, Andrew, I take it things are a little bit windy today!Andrew the weather guy, who is only doing the report from outside because everyone wants to see him to get fucked over by the weather: YES THANK YOU JANET, the perfect day to revive this gif pic.twitter.com/UZ9G7hwidA Dear broadcast colleagues, Ignore the haters, I for one absolutely adore your on-the-scene weather reports. (Even if it is a little feeling of schadenfreude.)Keep up the good work. 💪💨 “Very few people out walking, most of them having to walk sideways”Danger-to-life warning extended as Storm Eunice hits UKBBC’s Tomos Morgan reports from south Waleshttps://t.co/aYHC9PlLjS pic.twitter.com/tzaRFjmIwU I’m going to stand firm on my view that a reporter being buffeted and rained on, or wading in floodwater, is proper reporting and not just a US imported gimmick. News is a human thing and we need our stories delivered that way. Then there’s the livestream from a man with a camera filming planes attempting to land at Heathrow Airport during the storm, which has now accumulated more than 100,000 viewers. ‘Big Jet TV’ YouTube channel has people cheering for pilots when they manage to safely land on the runaway amid the chaotic weather. Big Jet TV is currently getting more than two and a half times more viewers than GB News usually gets. This is the most compelling telly I've watched in years. https://t.co/iGks4qJ8Lq my Twitter feed today has gone from people insisting working from home is more productive to people obsessing about Big Jet TV... My cat is currently obsessed with the live stream of planes landing at Heathrow.#StormEunice pic.twitter.com/2N9WNFZIiv This Heathrow feed is the most gripping plane-related live stream since Priti Patel flew back from Kenya to be sacked in 2017