People who have a high risk of becoming ill from Covid can now take a new antiviral treatment available from the NHS.  Paxlovid, which is a pill owned by Pfizer, has been added to the list of antivirals already available. The drug reduced the risk of hospital admission or death by 88% in clinical trials, according to the Department of Health and Social Care. The announcement comes as clinically extremely vulnerable (CEV) people have told HuffPost UK they fear for their lives as the end of all Covid restrictions approaches. While some on social media have welcomed the rollout of the new drug, others have urged the government to focus on public health measures which would stop the spread of Covid-19 in the first place.  Antiviral treatments are for people who are have not been admitted to the hospital. They’re designed to limit the risk of becoming seriously ill and allow people to deal with their Covid-19 symptoms. Here’s what you need to know about them:  The treatments available are: Nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, remdesivir and molnupiravir are all antiviral medicines. Sotrovimab on the other hand is a biological medicine which is also known as a neutralising monoclonal antibody.  You’re eligible for the treatments if:  According to the NHS, those who are at high risk are people with:  Antiviral treatments work by stopping the virus from reproducing in your body once you’ve been infected. Vaccines boost immunity to the virus, but are not 100% fail-safe. These treatments limit how the virus can spread in your body after infection. If taken early, they can stop serious disease from developing. They limit your chance of being taken to the hospital or getting seriously ill. The pills will help with reinfections, especially for those who are vulnerable.  If you’re eligible for a treatment you first need to take a Covid test. If you test positive you must report this on the GOV.UK website so they can contact you about treatment,  Once you test positive, the treatment should be taken as soon as possible. In order for the treatments to be effective they have to be taken quickly after your symptoms appear.  The NHS should be in contact with you in 24 hours to asses whether the treatment is right for you. The treatments are free and the NHS will never ask for your card details or ask to pay for treatment.