Angela Rayner has infuriated many people with her latest comments on policing and anti-terrorism by sharing her “hardline” stance. The deputy leader of the Labour Party is known for her more outspoken nature – previously causing controversy by referring to the Tories as “scum” – but she caused major upset among typical Labour voters on Thursday when her latest remarks circulated. “On things like law and order I am quite hardline,” Rayner told Matt Forde’s Political Party podcast, as she distanced herself from former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and claimed the party would now be tougher on crime. She continued: “I am like, shoot your terrorists and ask questions second.” When the live audience reacted loudly, Rayner said: “Sorry – is that the most controversial thing I’ve ever said?” She then continued: “On law and order, I think if you are being terrorised by the local thug, I want a copper to come and sort them out. “You should be hardline on things like that. It’s not just, ‘Oh you’ve been burgled here is a crime number.’ “I want you to beat down the doors of the criminals and sort them out and antagonise them. “That’s what I say to my local police...three o’clock in the morning and antagonise them.” She also said growing up she was “plagued by anti-social behaviour” by “the usual suspects”, adding: “I want the police to annoy the hell out of them until they realise disrupting lives is not OK. I am quite hardline on that.” It wasn’t long before people started pointing out how Rayner’s policy has actually been enacted before. A civilian, Jean Charles de Menezes, was shot dead in 2005 by Met Police officers after he was incorrectly identified as someone involved with bombing attempts, obviously sparking some widespread backlash. Fatal flaw in Rayner’s Wild West world is cops can get it wrong and execute the innocent(Jean Charles de Menezes) if they shoot first then can’t ask questionsBack killing terrorists firing/stabbing/threatening suicide vest detonation. but why so gung ho? https://t.co/bN47jcRC81 ‘Take that Mr De Menezes. Now we’d like to ask you a few questions’ https://t.co/5WC4BySXrr This approach has been tried and tested. It led to Jean Charles de Menezes, an innocent man, being repeatedly shot in the head. This macho posturing by politicians is childish and helps create an atmosphere which costs innocent lives. https://t.co/WYQgSWIS25 'shoot first, ask later' has famously never caused any problems for the police pic.twitter.com/KMoUgqHmTt Reminds me of Tony Blair's slogan 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime', effectively trying to be more Conservative than the Tories. Then people questioned why she had decided to talk about this, including fellow Labour MP Diane Abbott was also among those criticising Rayner. Is Angela suggesting a mandatory death sentence for suspected (but not convicted) “terrorists” ? https://t.co/RIsaENZ20L What’s even more risible about Angela Rayner’s “shoot first and ask questions later” comment is that I bet she doesn’t even believe it. But she thinks it’s what other people want to hear, and that’s enough to suspend the most basic moral interrogation of that position. People also pointed out how this could stoke fear among crowds, and make some feel like they could be victimised by the police. This makes me, a brown person with a beard who often uses a backpack, feel very safe and secure in a country in which the police once stopped me for "looking suspicious" - I was smoking at a bus stop. https://t.co/l7sIteN2Q9 Some making out Angela Rayner’s comments about shoot first policy for terrorists is some new policyIt’s been operational anti-terror response to “marauding terrorist threats” for yrsIf faced with man wearing what purports to be “suicide vest” you disable to prevent greater harm