Lindsay Hoyle threw two MPs out of the House of Commons after they refused to stop shouting at Boris Johnson. Alba MPs Kenny MacAskill and Neale Hanvey launched their noisy protest at the start of prime minister’s questions. The furious Commons Speaker repeatedly shouted “Order!” in an attempt to make the pair be quiet. East Lothian MP MacAskill could be heard trying to raise a point of order and appeared to say “we need a referendum on the prime minister” before he was drowned out by other MPs. He then refused to sit down and continued to speak, prompting Hoyle to issue a number of stern warnings. Hanvey, the MP for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, then rose to his feet and was drowned out by Tory MPs before he was subsequently told to leave the chamber. “I will not tolerate such behaviour,” Hoyle shouted. “If you want to go out, go out now— but if you stand again I will order you out. “Make your mind up: either shut up or get out!” After they refused to stop, Hoyle then “named” them and ordered Commons security staff to remove them. MacAskill told STV news following the episode that his expulsion was a “democratic outrage”. “We have a mandate for a referendum in Scotland and this is a prime minister who has distorted parliamentary democracy, who is denying Scotland its legitimate right to a referendum and at the same time...Scotland is an energy-rich country and over half of people are going to be facing fuel poverty. “It’s time Scotland had the right to determine its own future rather than having a future determined by a handful of Tory MPs, and then by a handful of Tory members — none of whom have been elected in Scotland, and indeed no Tory prime minister has been elected in Scotland in my lifetime.” Lindsay Hoyle, the supply teacher who has lost control of period 5 Year 11s #PMQs Drama already at #PMQs as before it even begins, as Neale Hanvey and Kenny McAskill are escorted out by the Serjeant. Order! pic.twitter.com/kTnFyc7TjR No messing from Speaker Lindsay Hoyle as he throws @AlbaParty’s two MPs out of the Commons pic.twitter.com/NhJ0AijTua