A Conservative MP has been urged to stay away from parliament after police revealed a politician had been arrested over rape and sexual assault offences over a seven-year period. The serving male MP, in his 50s, remained in custody as the Metropolitan Police questioned him over allegations of offences committed between 2002 and 2009, the Metropolitan Police said. The unnamed man was also arrested on allegations of abuse of position of trust and misconduct in a public office, according to Scotland Yard. Following the revelation, the Tory party confirmed a Conservative MP has been told not to turn up to the Commons amid the investigation. A Conservative whips office spokeswoman said: “The chief whip has asked that the MP concerned does not attend the parliamentary estate while an investigation is ongoing. “Until the conclusion of the investigation we will not be commenting further.” It was understood the Conservatives will not make a decision on whether the suspect has the whip suspended until after the police investigation is concluded. The Metropolitan Police said: “In January 2020, the Met received a report relating to alleged sexual offences having been committed between 2002 and 2009. The offences are alleged to have occurred in London. “An investigation is ongoing, led by officers from central specialist crime. “A man, aged in his 50s, was arrested on suspicion of indecent assault, sexual assault, rape, abuse of position of trust and misconduct in public office. “He remains in custody.” It’s the latest sexual misconduct accusation to rock Westminster. Imran Ahmad Khan quit as a Tory MP after last month being convicted of molesting a teenage boy. David Warburton had the Conservative whip withdrawn after allegations of sexual harassment and cocaine use emerged. Over the last year, about 15 MPs are expected to have been investigated by parliament’s Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme watchdog that examines allegations of bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct.