Marriage is full of highs, lows and a whole bunch of ordinary moments in between. And somehow the spouses of Twitter continue to find humour in the minutiae of married life – and sum it up perfectly in no more than 280 characters. Every other week, we round up the funniest marriage tweets of the previous 14 days. Read on for 31 new, relatable ones that will have you laughing in agreement. wife: I feel like we should talk about thisme: [eating chili in bed while using old sweatpants as a napkin] about what My husband is with me every step of the way, in life, in love, in faith, in front of the kitchen drawer I need to get to Me [coming home]: HOWS MY BABY?!?!Him: I’m goodMe:Him: you meant the dog didn’t you If my wife doesn’t like her haircut, does her hairdresser even know the emotional mess I'm left to clean up. I’m suppose to give my wife an injection today but she’s worried cuz she’s seen my many struggles with Capri Sun straws. Movie date night when you're married is spent passive aggressively turning up the volume on each other when the other chews too loudly. Secret to a successful marriage is watching a Netflix series together in the living room, and then on your individual phones in the bedroom To be fair, I did a lot of stupid shit before I was married too. Now I just have someone who judges me for it. If your husband has never known the joy of a clean house, fresh folded laundry and homeade bread, you should introduce him to my husband. They'd have a lot in common. yes I believe in traditional marriage: one person explains the day’s most unhinged tweets and the other wishes it would stop If you’re curious about what it’s like to be married for 24 years, I told my husband we should probably cut back on our frivolous spending & 2 days later he bought a car on his lunch break. My husband and I are at the age where the only games we play are “go fish” with the contents of our nightstands. Wife: Whatcha thinking about?Me: I was just wondering if Harry Potter puts on a condom or just uses a spell, like “Erectus Protectus” or something Wife: You’d think I would know better by now Me: [asks where something is]My wife: I saw it where we keep our keys.Me: Why do you torture me? My husband just left on his vintage style bicycle to which he has fastened an old wooden avocado box to go pick up coffee to bring back to the house and on the way out he said “I hope the neighbors see me.” In case you’re wondering what the gay agenda is up to this morning. The transmission went out in my husband’s car and it would seem that’s not the ideal time to remind him that he was offered an extended warranty countless times Marriage: I didn’t even notice you were gone. Also marriage: You were in the bathroom for 17 minutes and 24 seconds. The best way to work out on a Sunday is by rage-vacuuming while your spouse naps, which burns way more calories than regular weekday vacuuming. [ working on a jigsaw puzzle ]WIFE: When I find a piece that fits, I get a little adrenaline rush. Then I just ride that high until the next one. ME: … I feel an intervention coming on. Half the arguments in my house wouldn’t happen if my wife just once acknowledged the most recent chore I completed All I have to do is throw the word “Garage“ into any sentence and I instantly have my husband’s attention. [At a restaurant]Me: I'm getting the chicken Caesar salad.Husband: I think I'll get the wings.Me: Those don't come with fries.Husband: I know.Me: Husband:Me: But...whose fries am I going to eat?! I accidentally spilled Coke on my husband’s shoes, so now I’m waiting to see which one of my kids acts like a jerk first so I know who to blame it on. Accidentally used my kids' toothpaste this morning & now I can’t stop asking “why” every time my wife speaks to me Woke up this morning to find my husband had gotten me a surprise McDonald's hash brown, is this a vow renewal? Me: *taking a picture of my bare backHusband: What are you doing?Me: *not wanting to scare him unnecessarily while I inspect my moles* I started an Only Fans. How many throw pillows do you see in this picture?~My wife designing a captcha Get yourself a wife who can text with you lovingly about what you want for dinner while you’re in separate rooms watching separate shows PSA: For anyone who needs to hear this *cough* my husband *cough* if you stack the bowls and the pans in size order they fit better in the cabinet. BONUS no will get hit in the head with a frying pan.