Sam Ryder has scored the UK’s best Eurovision result in 24 years, and fans cannot get over it.  The singer finished second on the leaderboard after performing his song Space Man at the Song Contest held in Turin, Italy, on Saturday night.  It proved to be a remarkable reversal of fortunes following last year’s dreaded nul points, and is the highest the UK has placed since 1998, when Imaani’s Where Are You? finished just behind Israel’s Dana International, who won with her song Diva. The United Kingdom had led the vote for most of Saturday night’s results after Sam’s performance came out on top of the jury vote. However, the public overwhelmingly backed Ukraine, who won the competition with 631 points on the leaderboard, with the UK securing 466 points. On social media, people revelled in our country finally doing well in the contest again:  The UK right now watching each country give us 12 points #Eurovision pic.twitter.com/1gSP0W2Pve FRANCE GAVE THE UK 12 POINTS? WHAT IS HAPPENING?! IS EVERYONE OK? #Eurovision the brits chanting ‘we got points’ is the most british thing that has happened this year #Eurovision The UK and Spain going from bottom three last year to top three #Eurovision pic.twitter.com/eBd2Ve7ebv SECOND PLACE! This is an incredible moment, no time to be too disappointed. @SamRyderMusic did himself and everyone SO damn proud. Look what can happen when the UK gets it right! Onto 2023!! Congratulations Sam 💜 #Eurovision The UK went from receiving the worst score in #Eurovision history to finishing 2nd. Spain went from receiving 0 televote points to finishing 3rd. Spanish and British fans should be nothing short of ecstatic. #ESC2022 Three cheers for Sam Ryder what a fantastic result for #UK @bbceurovision #Eurovision2022 #eurovision @ OMG IS THIS WHAT DOING WELL IN FOOTBALL FEELS LIKE?! IM SHAKING SCREAMING THROWING UP #EUROVISION #UK Wtaf is happening #Eurovision I love the fact that WHAT IS HAPPENING is trending because the whole of the UK is collectively losing their minds about us not being complete pariahs in #Eurovision nothing has united the uk rn as much as our collective confusion over topping the leaderboard #Eurovision i cannot believe this we came second SECOND in Eurovision the best result for the uk since 1998. the first top 3 since 2002. the first left hand side since 2011. sam ryder, thank you SO much! Omg UK 2nd place in the 21st century?!?!?! #eurovision pic.twitter.com/RrivgAyZPT People across the UK seeing Europe like us #Eurovision pic.twitter.com/bM1CRbnNHS The whole of the UK right now #Eurovision pic.twitter.com/25eJqn8o8f UK at the top of the leader board and France has just given us douze points. What’s happening?! #Eurovision OMG IS THIS ACTUALLY HAPPENING 😭 124 points and counting 😭 YES #teamSPACEMAN🧑‍🚀 #Eurovision Following the result, Sam celebrated “destroying the stigma” around the UK and Eurovision, as he partied with the BBC’s Eurovision semi-final commentators Scott Mills and Rylan Clark.  In a video Scott posted, he said: “We did it, we just destroyed the stigma! Thanks everyone for supporting. That was an incredible, incredible, rewarding journey. I hope you enjoyed coming along on it.” WHAT. A. NIGHT!We came 2nd!! OMG!! 🇬🇧 @SamRyderMusic @Rylan @bbceurovision #Eurovision pic.twitter.com/46HbvDBL3J Following the result, UK prime minister Boris Johnson said he was “incredibly proud” of Sam Ryder and how “he brilliantly represented the UK”.