Boris Johnson’s attempts to excuse his involvement with the partygate scandal following the release of Sue Gray’s report appears to have impressed precisely no-one on Twitter – or in the Commons – today. The top civil servant’s probe into the Downing Street gatherings which took place throughout various lockdowns was finally released on Wednesday, after months of anticipation and a concluded police investigation. The prime minister subsequently addressed the Commons about the scandal, (six months after it first began) and extended his apologies to the House. He said that he took “full responsibility for everything that took place on my watch”, but that he had no idea some gatherings went on until the early hours and that he was “surprised and disappointed” by some of the revelations. Then, he added: “Frankly, I have been appalled by some of the behaviour, particularly in the treatment of the security and the cleaning staff. “And I’d like to apologise to those members of staff and I expect anyone who behaved in that way to apologise to them as well.” This apology did not land well with anyone, it seems. Plenty of Conservative MPs left the Chambers when Johnson started his statement about partygate. Lots of Tory MPs leaving the chamber now. Like half of them. Even the ones who stayed were not impressed, including former prime minister Theresa May. Theresa May’s face is a picture. #Partygate Theresa May is sitting stony-faced behind Boris Johnson with what looks like a copy of the Sue Gray report in her lap… An enthused audience pic.twitter.com/rizhdHHhQ2 Then his specific excuses went down like a lead balloon with Twitter... "It can be difficult to distinguish between work and socialising" says Boris JohnsonWhat? This cannot be serious. NHS worked very long hours and hospitals somehow did not become party central https://t.co/e8u1lhBiO6 If you can’t govern what goes on in your own home, how can you possibly govern a country? https://t.co/tbPlFWe7jc One more time, because Boris Johnson keeps saying he thought he was attending “work events”: Work events were not allowed under Covid rules. The long hours defence is such nonsense, like Downing Street were the only people working a lot, and also, they finished for wine at 4pm!!!! Excuse after excuse after excuse. No contrition at all. Utterly despicable. ‘I take full responsibility’ pic.twitter.com/C300ZSMhzr Classic "it was a big building" defence https://t.co/bpri38UWGj Then, in response to Sir Keir Starmer’s statement about the Downing Street parties, Johnson quickly referred to the “beergate” incident which put the Labour leader in the spotlight instead. He joked about the curry and drinks Starmer was seen with at a work event – another move which did not land with people watching. Minutes after emphasising his own humility, Boris Johnson calls Keir Starmer “Sir Beer Korma”. Some Tory MPs enjoyed that, others looking like they didn’t - at all. "I am humbled and I have learnt a lesson"..."Sir Beer Korma" We’ve now reached the ‘Sir Beer Korma’ level of humble. And all this happened when the prime minister was formally addressing the Sue Gray report. In the hours before Johnson’s apology began, people rallied on Twitter in fury over what the Gray probe had uncovered. I’ve been a civil servant for 30 years, 28 of them in the EU institutions, and I am honestly gobsmacked at the unprofessional mess described in the #SueGrayReport. Drinking until you puke? Fisticuffs? At the office?? The *PM*’s office?? Britain’s reputation is in the toilet. We’ve all done it. Woken up in the early hours having vomited in a Red Box, a disapproving portrait of Lord Palmerston staring down at you Downing St bashes sound like a stag do gone wrong.Booze, more booze, sick, late night fights and a karaoke machine… "I'm so sorry you found out..." https://t.co/BZhhaxqYQR A source at the @metpoliceuk says the reason why junior Downing Street staff got fined, while senior figures didn't is that the senior people failed to answer the questionnaire. So non-cooperation gets you off.I'll remember that next time I'm arrested for protesting. By far the most damaging line so far. WhatsApp message from the PM's private secretary about a media story: "better than them focusing on our drinks (which we seem to have got away with)."Got away with. Not quite... They’re making this guy an ambassador now obv https://t.co/0wJpDm4obN Look at the blatant villainy!#SueGrayReport pic.twitter.com/PGW29Inr31 Why would a special adviser working for the PM say this if they didn’t realise they were doing something wrong? https://t.co/7mT4ZuP776 Let me write it for him:"We are very sorry that as millions..... some people failed.... mistakes have been made.... but now it's time to get on with the job of delivering ..... blah blah.... this government blah blah..... some insults thrown at Starmer and mention of his beer" https://t.co/fc0rJJOaVD Unsurprisingly, this chapter in the partygate saga has triggered a snap poll from YouGov where 59% of participants said they believe Johnson should resign. SNAP POLL: 59% of Britons think that Boris Johnson should resign as PMAll Brits Should resign: 59%Should remain: 30%Con voters Resign: 27%Remain: 63%Lab votersResign: 88%Remain: 6%https://t.co/0uxu6LjnS2 pic.twitter.com/GDjJYiZTGO