Some wedding dress codes are fairly straightforward, like cocktail or black tie. Others are decidedly less so — think “fancy ranch,” “California chic” or “garden attire.” After attending hen parties, buying gifts and booking transport and hotels, the last thing a wedding guest wants to do is decipher a confounding description of the preferred attire for the big day.  In the midst of all the sartorial confusion, at least there’s room for humour. We’ve rounded up 25 funny tweets about wedding dress codes.  when the wedding invite dress code is "chic cocktail casual" pic.twitter.com/pR66tDsu03 The dress code for the wedding I'm attending this weekend is "garden attire" and I'm confused if that means florals or crocs or what. When your friend's wedding dress code is "festive cocktail" and you're struggling not to be a troll... pic.twitter.com/f4te2hkbT7 me planning a wedding: dress code is warm and nice but not TOO formal but don't be weird about it, like nice jeans or more like- don't overdo it or buy anything just for this like it's chill if y-wedding planner: i cannot work with this and we are out of room on the invite People wildin when they describe their anticipated wedding guest attire.... they are like “dressy beach casual black tie” pic.twitter.com/7VTSKnUj5n WTF is dressy-casual western-themed wedding attire??? looking back on my search history is a real trip pic.twitter.com/j857Dwf4ld Just got invited to a wedding whose attire specifications are "tropical chic beach elegant," and no. Just no. when the wedding dress code is "smart casual" pic.twitter.com/jVJePlfNVg Going to a wedding with a dressy casual dress code so I guess I’m wearing silk pajamas if i ever get married i think i will make everyone wear crocs to the wedding. dress code: croctail attire My brother-in-law’s wedding dress code is “black tie or Met Gala gown preferred” and I am going to have SO much fun figuring out which outfit comes right up to the line of “too much” but does not cross it pic.twitter.com/bxNduYbd4Q If wedding attire is "yachty chic" is one contractually obligated to wear a nautical themed pashmina afghan? My friend's wedding dress code is 'dressy casual'. That means necktie and sweatpants, right? Never mind don't tell me I'm already in the car I love to try to figure out what "cocktail attire" means for a wedding by doing a web search that brings up contradictory information from sites with names like The Proper Knob and Natty Dipshit. What they said: our wedding dress code is fashion forward!What I heard: Teamster but make it fashion. pic.twitter.com/VFGOkPzTbf gonna make my wedding dress code health goth formal A fun to mess with your closest 175 friends and family is by putting a nonsensical dress code on your wedding invitations. Try “small town newspaper chic” or “landlocked destination whimsy” or “family recipe green tie” and see what they dream up! Y’all I need help…I’m going to a farm wedding the end of September. Attire: Festive Cocktail and or Farm Fancy What the hell do I wear? me when i'm told the dresscode is 'dressy-casual' pic.twitter.com/P1RNubGUlu On Wedding Planning FB group - somebody has said their wedding dress code for guests is strictly black & grey only. I can't think of anything more miserable looking. I would be gutted if my wedding looked like a funeral. When you wear a cocktail dress to a wedding because the invite says “cocktail attire” but you arrive and find out they changed it to “beachy casual.” My wedding dress code shall be business bohemian Summer wedding in TX and the dress code is garden chic/cocktail attire, so I go garden chic or cocktail attire??!???? I was invited to a wedding with “smart casual” attire.  Now I’ll be spending three weeks figuring out what the hell that means.