With just one week to go until the brand new Love Island villa opens its doors, ITV has begun revealing the cast for this year’s series. The forthcoming eighth series of the Bafta-winning reality show is expected to be very much business as usual, with Laura Whitmore and Iain Stirling back on presenting and narrating duties, respectively. However, there will be a few tweaks to the format – including the action playing out in a brand new Mallorcan villa and producers making the decision to ditch their usual fast-fashion tie-ins in favour of a new deal with eBay, which will see the Islanders sporting “pre-loved” outfits throughout their search for romance. On Monday morning, bosses started announcing the new cast members who’ll be taking up residence in the Love Island villa from next week in the hopes of nabbing true love (or, at the very least, a Boohoo collection). Get to know them a little better below – and make sure to keep checking back over the course of today as more Islanders are unveiled…  Age: 24 From: Swansea Job: Paramedic She says: “I need to break out and broaden my horizons and Love Island just brings everyone together for me. I haven’t got to go out and I haven’t got to swipe. So, hopefully they can just come to me now! “[I’m bringing] positive energy, lots of bubbly energy. I am a good cook and I’m quite mumsy so I’ll look after anyone that needs looking after.” Age: 26 From: Dublin Job: Senior microbiologist He says: “This year I was kind of being more open to new things and I think actually that’s why I put myself out there to get some new experiences. Love Island is a different experience, I will be talking to different girls, it might not go well with some, might go well with others, so it’s a fun experience. “I don’t know if I will cause trouble, I’ll try not to cause trouble but sometimes you don’t intentionally cause trouble - but it happens!” Age: 23 From: London Job: Hotel waitress She says: “I have been single for some time and I feel like for my generation of people, it’s quite hard to date without being influenced by social media and stuff like that. Love Island particularly is like a closed space and I think it is a great place to get to know someone one-on-one and build a real connection. “I feel like I’m going to bring a lot of flavour and vibrancy. I feel like I’m quite a down to earth person, so it shouldn’t be an issue to meet a lover or a friend.” Age: 22 From: Newport, South Wales  Occupation: Masters student (Strength & Conditioning) He says: “I think 22 is a really nice age to meet someone, you’ve got your years ahead of you so you have time to experience stuff and grow together. I think Love Island is a great opportunity to meet someone, you’re in with a load of different types, so you can get to grips with what you really like about people.” Age: 23 From: Thirsk Occupation: Model and dancer She says: “I can get very wild on a night out, I’m definitely a party animal. I love my prosecco and to have a dance - I’m always on the dance floor. I’m very loyal to my friends and family, I’ll always have their backs. I’m the type of person to put others before me. They would definitely say I’m a nap queen - I love napping! “I think they’d also say I’m inspirational because of my hearing and my cochlear implant. I inspire quite a lot of people because I’m really open about it.” Age: 27 From: Rome, Italy (lives in Manchester) Occupation: Business owner  He says: “I’m going to be the Italian stallion in the Villa! With my Italian charm, I can also be a very romantic guy. I’m good looking and I’ve realised since I first arrived in Manchester, a lot of English girls actually love me. They love to be around me and I love to be around them. It’s going to be fun.” Age: 19 From: Chester Occupation: International dressage rider and business owner She says: “I’ve competed for Great Britain in dressage since I was 11-years-old. I’ve travelled all across Europe competing in big arenas in big competitions. I would say I’m very competitive. ″[When it comes to relationships] I will always go for what I want. But at the same time, I’m not going to mess up something for someone who is in a proper relationship or get in the way of a couple if they have a genuine connection. I wouldn’t do anything to another girl that I wouldn’t be happy with them doing to me.” Age: 23 From: Nottingham Occupation: Pharmaceutical sales  He says: “Hopefully, I’m going to bring spontaneity and excitement. I’m not really shy to speak to people and I don’t really care too much about what people think.” Age: 27 From: Guernsey  Occupation: Real estate agent He says: “When I’m with someone I’m very loyal, I’m a good boyfriend as when I’m with someone I’m all for them.” Age: 24 From: London Occupation: Nanny She says: “I don’t like guys that show off. I don’t like flashy, showy-offy guys - just have a personality and make me laugh. There was this one guy and he was trying to purposefully show off his car keys and we were literally in the middle of a restaurant!” Love Island returns on Monday 6 June at 9pm on ITV2.